2005-01-22	5.0	3	6	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	ne 1 who doesn't like this movie...there is something wrong w/u...if u dont like the plot..@ least appreciate the cars that r in this movie..if u dont even like those..look @ the god damn girls! OH MAN! Miami has the title of having some of the most beautiful women on the free world! So unless your gay (nothin against ya), or just a geek or hates everything but computers and pocket protecters..u better like this movie..im out.PEACE
2005-09-13	4.0	4	7	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I LOVE THIS MOVIE.  I LOVE LUDACRIS AND VEN DISEL THEY ARE SO CUTE .I LOVE RACING AND CARS. I DONT GET ENOUGH OF THIS MOVIE.
2003-12-13	1.0	12	19	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Summary:Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker) is a former cop turned fugitive whose hobby happens to be racing cars.  Having left the L.A. area (the location of the first movie), he is finally caught in Miami.  But instead of sending him to jail, the authorities have a proposition for him - help them bring down local drug lord Carter Verone (Cole Hauser) and they'll forget about his criminal record.  Brian agrees, but only if he can choose his partner.  So he chooses an old friend from his childhood days in Barstow, CA, ex-convict Roman Pearce (Tyrese).The DEA has an agent inside Verone's operation, Monica Fuentes (Eva Mendes), who hooks them up with a job to drive for Verone.  But for some reason Verone has decided he is ready to leave the country, so he has only one job for Roman and Brian, pick up a bunch of cash and drive it to an airport where he can get out of the country.  Roman and Brian, who are constantly fighting their police and DEA handlers, pull a few tricks in the process.  The result, they pull off the job, get Verone his money, capture him, save Fuentes (who has fallen in love with Brian), and get away with some of the loot - what a surprise!My Comments:Let's see, what does the movie have going for it... Story - terrible.  Acting - even worse.  Fast cars - nope.  What?  It doesn't even have fast cars?  Unless you consider 85 mph fast, nope.The story is just plain silly.  To begin with, Brian apparently has a massive rap sheet, but he was a cop?  Um, are cops allowed to do that?  I don't think so.  Second, okay, let's pretend that the DEA would be willing to let Brian expunge his record in order to help them.  And let's pretend even further that they would be willing to let a violent ex-convict be his partner.  And let's pretend even further further that they would completely disregard that Brian and Roman break a gazillion laws every time they get in a car and that Roman shooting at a DEA agent at one point in order not to blow their cover is 'cool'.  With all of this pretending, I just could not keep pretending when the movie has a highly successful drug lord use two cop-attracting racing cars to transport his money.  I mean, I'm no drug lord, but if it were me, I'd use old women in Cadillacs; cops never pull them over.  This has to be the silliest premise for a movie I have ever seen.  The sole purpose is to present a situation where cars can go fast.  Who cares that it would never happen, right?  Well, why make it into a movie with the trimmings of a story if the story is so implausibly ridiculous that it would be better if it didn't exist?  I don't get it.Another serious problem I had with the story and movie is the fact that every time you got more than one car racing lunatic together with another, it inevitably included about 100+ scantily clad women who were perfectly okay with the fact that they were just being used for their breasts and vaginas.  The car racing culture portrayed in this movie doesn't exist (if you believe it does, I have a bridge I'd like to sell you in Brooklyn...).  I'm supposed to believe that these women have nothing better to do with their time than sit around and watch people race cars, watercraft, etc. all day.  They don't work?  Please!As far as the acting goes, this are B-movie actors.  No one is good.  But since this movie isn't about the story or the acting, just about portraying a non-existent racing culture and fast cars, it shouldn't matter.  But wait, the cars aren't fast...So, what was up with the cars only doing 80 to100 mph?  I do 80 on my way to work in the morning.  Maybe I should take a camera with me and make a movie.  I drive a Honda Civic; does that mean I've got a racing machine?  Heck, I've even driven 120 mph (not on the way to work, but that's another story...), which was about the fastest I think I saw the speedometers go.  So, why is this movie called 2 Fast?  Ideally it would be in reference to the length of the movie, as it would be in its best interest to get it over with quick, before anyone realizes that what they just saw was ridiculously stupid.Overall, I don't recommend this movie for anyone, except those people who actually believe their is a cool, car-racing underground culture where stuff like this actually happens.  Sure, people race cars, but do they gather around several thousand people and close down streets to do it?  Only if they are as stupid as the makers of this movie and want to go to jail.  Don't see this movie!
2003-09-30	5.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	THIS MOVIE KEEPS U ON THE EDGE OF U'R SEAT BUT AT THE SAME TIME MAKES U LAUGH.. I CAN'T C Y PEEP'S DITCH THIS MOVIE OR THE FIRST UNLESS THEY WERE BORN UNDER A ROCK.... PAUL WALKER RETURNS & DOES AN X-CELENT JOB ... TYRESE A NEW UPCOMING STAR ALSO PROVIDES AN X-CELENT JOB AS HIS CO-PARTNER .....ALOT OF HIGH SPEED ACTION ALOT OF HUMOR...EVERYONE THAT BROUGHT THIS MOVIE 2GETHER SHOULD B ACCOMIDATED... WELL DONE....
2003-06-13	1.0	3	6	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	a better title for 2 FAST 2 FURIOUS is 2 DUMB 2 STUPID!  a total yawner from start to finish.  the MIAMI VICE pilot episode is better than this garbage!
2014-01-12	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Favorite movie and i got a clean copy. Thats all I ever want out of movies. Im very happy with my purchase.
2010-09-14	1.0	0	54	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I was disapointed to open it and find that it was not the special edition so I had to return it just to pay $3 more to buy from another site
2005-09-13	4.0	3	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie was great, of the cars that were featured in it and it was really great how they raced and how they showed everthing in it. The scenes were good too because they had lots of special effects that seemed real.
2007-06-19	3.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie was up and down, to an effect. Having seen both movies, anyone who saw the first one knows that Vin Diesel was what shaped the movie... not Paul Walker. I can't say I have anything against Paul Walker's acting, and much less Tyrese, but I do think that it was the idea of changing both the concept and the crew for this one.I mean, don't get me wrong. This movie has some parts that the first movie lacked. For example... this movie has the humor that the first movie needed. Hell, the first one probably would have been a -LOT- better if it could have been as funny as this one was. This one had the saturation of humor that everyone probably wanted anyway. Not too little, not too much. The first one had none at all.On top of that, the plot, the concept, the acting, actors, and the backstory pretty much all change. No one has any idea that O'Conner (Walker) has any history with street racing. In addition we never knew he grew up in Florida or anything like it.As we can see from the first movie he drives like he's a newb when he's at the speedway in Los Angeles, and in the second movie you hear Tyrese discussing about them both being fast drivers in the past, and so on.I guess the concept lost it's depth when they chose to put Cole Hauser (Paparazzi) in. I dislike his acting ability on the whole. I thought he sucked in Paparazzi and he wasn't much better in this one.Not to mention the change of location, the whole location flip flopped. It went from pacific to Atlantic, and neither of these movies have anything to do with one another. If they -really- planned to do this movie with Paul Walker returning, they should have based it somewhere else out of California, like Malibu or something.If they wanted to keep it Miami-oriented, they should have went for a new lead actor and dropped Walker altogether.On the whole, the movie was fine but I dislike it for what it's lacking, originality more than anything. I wouldn't recommend buying it right away. Go rent it to see if you like it first. I wager some will like it, and some won't.
2014-06-23	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	It was good no Sraches when I got it over all I am very pleased very good movie  R.I.P. Paul walker you will be missed
2003-07-06	4.0	8	8	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 fast 2 furious lives up to its title- somewhat. it isn't the fastest or the most furious, but it's airheaded and fluffy enough to move quickly without being attatched to the strings of an actual plot.But its lack of an intriguing storyline doesn't destroy its fun factor.  the souped up hot rods polished to a fine sheen speeding down the streets of miami make for some rather satisfying guilty pleasures.And if you'd rather feast your eyes on something more than oversized hot wheels in a rainbow of colors, you won't be disappointed.  the men have the pleasures of drooling a little puddle over shapely women, but we girls definately aren't left out in the cold.Studly Paul walker with his charmingly innocent grin, and his accomplis Tyrese with his toned body (and urge to constantly rip his shirt off) would make any girl faint (if they weren't sitting in a chair)if you want something quick, that doesn't require too much thought, is loaded with eye candy, light hearted, fun, and will help you munch your way through your stale, overly buttery popcorn, than this movie is what you've been searching for.
2002-12-15	1.0	2	36	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	i like the fast and the furious movie bikous its amizing you could even see nice cars so you could have any idea of cars you can even learn about cars.
2013-02-27	1.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	when i recieved this in the mail and opened it up there was no movie in the case only the bounus disk
2007-04-07	5.0	2	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I loved this movie, looks back on Brian's life.Eva Mendes looked great!!!RENT IT FIRST. Then, if you like it, BUY IT!!!
2005-08-07	4.0	2	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This was a cool and action packed film. I loved the car racing and intense fight scenes, as well as the hot babes and strong men. It also had some funny parts, and I liked the final fight with the big boat and car and gun thing. It had plenty of swears, and of course lots of cool and colorful cars. Guns, too. I liked this movie a lot  not just because of that, but also because it showed the importance  of teamwork and friendship. Anyone who likes racing, fighting, or both should see this movie. It's well worth the money you'll spend.
2014-04-15	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I really enjoy all the fast and furious , definitely my favorite movies of all time, fun exciting, awesome, thebest
2013-07-29	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	My boys actually love this movie and they are the ones I downloaded it for. I give this 2 thumbs up for anyone who likes fast cars and lots of action!
2013-04-17	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	very pleased 2 fast and 2 furious is my alltime favorites movies to watch any day of the week anytime!
2013-06-25	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Another great movie in the series. I really enjoyed the humor between the great actors. The action sequences were also well staged. Overall a good movie. I have added it to my video library.
2014-01-28	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Arrived quickly and was as described. Plus the price didn't increase over Mr. Walker's untimely passing. Will do buisness with you again.
2013-12-31	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	ok so we bought this originally at walmart on black friday special- all of the others had regular numbers on the side but this one for some reason had a roman numberal on it- come to find you needed the blue ray dvd ultraviolet pack to get the regular numbers- my bf is OCD so this drove him crazy- bought this one and gave the other away--he is happy now.
2008-04-09	5.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	ITEM CAME IN PERFECT CONDITION AND THE SHIPPING WAS PRETTY FAST. I WOULD RECOMMEND THIS SELLER TO ANYONE.
2003-08-31	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I think this is a GREAT movie!! I guess If i had to pick 1 thing that I didnt like about it was the fact that they leave you hanging on what happend to Dom. (Vin Diesel) they mention it a cuple of times in the 2nd movie but he didnt say anything about it. but besides that I really recomend the movie to anyoe who likes fast and good looking cars!!!
2003-10-01	3.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I would have to say the glamour and glory of this film was great, flashy cars, fast women, drugs, money, etc.  Besides Paul Walker, the rest of the cast was 2 lack of acting and screen friendly.  Should have knitted a sweater instead of watching the movie
2013-12-02	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	may your soul rest in peace now paul and thanks for the great action films. dam!!! we'll miss you bro
2014-03-23	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The 2nd one is as good as the first one.. Never a dull moment. The cars and gals are always brilliant!!
2004-07-28	1.0	1	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	When I first saw the preview of 2 fast 2 furious in the tv commercial,I thougt that the movie will do a great job bringing the old cast back from The fast and the furious.But when I found out that Vin diesel was'nt going to appear in the second part,I was'nt happy about it at all.However,Paul walker who play the role of an ex-cop,tried his best to save the movie but he could'nt do it...It did'nt get the good stuff that part 1 got,the driving and the crashing looked too much like The Simpsons Road Rage,The Simpsons hit & run and Namco's Smashing drive.Spend your money in another place.
2014-02-23	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Hot guys, hot cars, lots of action throughout the whole movie you will never be unhappy with the series always wanting more at the end
2014-01-03	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Ahh this is one of my favorite movies from the F&F series! I definitely recommend this movie if you're feelin' down or just need a laugh!
2003-11-10	3.0	2	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Let's face it.  If you saw the first installment (99 out of 100 of you), you didn't watch the sequel with anything in mind but more hot chicks, more kick ass cars, and more spectacular race sequences.  From the moment the drawbridge went up in the first race sequence I knew this movie wasn't going to dissapoint (from those perspectives, of course).The plot is textbook.  The cops are stupid (INCREDIBLY stupid).  The 'lead' actors are laughable (Paul's 'cuz-talk' actually makes for some of the most hilarious 'I'm trying really hard to sound like I'm from the hood' dialog I've heard in awhile!).BUT...There is eye candy everywhere.  The cars kick ass.  The special effects kick ass.  The races kick ass.  Anything to do with driving in this movie kicks ass.Then, who really went to see this expecting anything but?  The movie delivers exactly where it's supposed to.  Defenitely worth the rent.Let's see the '455 Rocket' as the star of #3!!!
2013-05-28	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This wasn't bad. It's true to the type of movie it's meant to be: fast cars, hot women, Paul Walker. It was decent enough and kept true to the storyline of #1, at least in my opinion.Shipping was great, packaging is great, everything that way was great.
2004-03-07	2.0	1	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Paul Walker returns in this sequel to 2001's The Fast and the Furious. Brian O'Conner (Walker) has left L.A due to his illegal actions from the first movie and now soars the streets of Miami making money here and there by street racing.  Watched by Customs Agent Monica Fuentes (Mendes), Brian is caught by the police and is given a deal by Agent Markham and Bilkins to go undercover and try to bring down drug lord Carter Verone (Hauser)in exchange for his criminal record to be erased. Brian agrees but only if he is given permission to choose his partner. Brian heads home to Barsto, Arizona where he recruits an old friend Roman Pearce (Tyrese) to help him. Pearce agrees but only for the same deal Brian was offered. With the help of Monica, Brian and Rome work together to take down Verone.  This was a horrible movie.  There was no reason to make a sequel.  They should have stopped after the first one.
2003-06-27	5.0	4	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious is a awesome movie that you should defiantly see!This is even better than the original Fast and the Furious in many ways. 2 Fast 2 Furious has a better storyline and better special affects.Even though Vin Desiel isn't in this one,who really needs him anyway?Tyrease is cool in this one.The acting is very good here too.This is a must see in my opinion.I'm sure you will probably enjoy it.
2003-11-11	1.0	1	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Talk about a crummmy job.  It's hard to decide which is worse - the acting, dialogue, photography, sound, &quot;plot&quot;, or racing. If you are a racing addict and want some perky babes at the same time this may fill the bill for a few minutes.  But that's all there is.The plot must be the product of a &quot;Movies for Dummies&quot; book, some mixed-up story about crime and racing and deadlines and gals and friends.  The only thing more predictable than the plot is the acting which is straight out of Central Casting.  Even my son who loves this type of movie admitted it was a &quot;dog&quot; which, in any generation, means bad.  Avoid at all costs.
2012-03-03	4.0	2	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The movie was in good condition. My problem was that I needed the item by a certain day and nowhere did it say this was an OUT OF THE COUNTRY SELLER! I think that needs to be posted somewhere so that you know before you buy your product. I contacted them and they had slow contact time so of course it was already sent out and too late.
2013-06-08	3.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I feel bad saying this, but this is one of those movies where I derive entertainment from watching the movie fail. The plot works, but it is really stupid and full of wholes. The only character moments are between the two supposedly heterosexual leads and how they each hate it when the other hits on females, and that is always hilarious to watch. The CGI is AWFUL and makes the action scenes that don't feature real cars feel absolutely surreal. The rest of the characters are one dimensional stereotypes full of hip-hop bravado and sexist stupidity. This movie is not good, but it is entertaining. Worth a rental, not worth a buy.
2003-12-29	1.0	8	13	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The only reason I signed up for Amazon.com was to write a truthfull review.  I would really give this movie a negative star rating or even a zero, but I cannot.  Let me start off by saying that back in 2001, I saw The Fast and the Furious and thought it was the coolest movie in the world.  I have since then matured and realized what a crappy movie it was and how much they don't have a clue about what they're talking about.  Like how you can pop the hood and see a NOS fogger system AND, direct port nitrous injection AND, a stand alone fuel management system(and that's only in one scene).  But away from the past, this movie is ten times worse.  For starters, they turned it into a movie geared at only one audience, black people and people that like to copy them.  With slang, rap music, hydralics and numerous other items from the &quot;Hip Hop&quot; community, this movie tries to blend show and go, but that is not really possible.  Anyone that knows anything about cars knows that air bags, neon lights, big spoilers, chrome rims or just plain any rims over 17 inches, TV's, $10,000 stereos, and playstation 2's will not help you out in the speed factor of your automobile.  It just saddens my heart to see what started off as a great phenomonon with the first movie, into neon lights and hip hop music.  This is absolutly the dumbest movie about cars I have ever seen.  The kids that like this movie think that cars that look cool and run 17 second quarter mile times are fast.  They like to go crusing, and race other cars like their's and think when they win against a civic with exhaust their car is the fastest on the block.  I also read a big feature article in Super Street, where they got to test the cars from the movie, and the cars times were SLOWER than stock.  All the did for the movie was weigh them down with chrome rims and computer s***.  I also found out they disengaged the all-wheel drive on the skyline, just so it could drift around corners to look cool.  This movie really gives true car enthusiasts a bad BAD name.  THIS MOVIE SUCKS.  F*** YOU 2 FAST 2 FURIOUS.
2004-12-07	5.0	1	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	hello movie ' this is the first time i'm gonna do this and i really wanna be a member for this hmv review lol so please let me be the member for this kind of show times and can u send me some stuff that r u movies new and if u have somethink to contest or somethink new so there u go now can watch the preview now please show time now
2007-01-10	3.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This was on my grnddaughter's wish list.  It is certainly not my kind of entertainment, but she loves it.Your service, delivery and ease of shopping made my holiday less work and more fun, thanks.Bettie Btodka
2013-07-28	3.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Good action movie, the cast is really good. If you like fast cars this a movie for you. Just as good as the first.
2013-04-08	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love this entire series, although the sequence was kind of weird. Over all though it was great action fun.
2007-03-14	3.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Pretty good flick. Much better than I expected. Pretty decent story line. Fans of the first will definetely enjoy this. Tyrese Gibson can act...Who knew ? Great action, and all the car chases you can handle...probably more. Eva Mendes is nice to look at...as always, and Cole Hauser is cool as hell...as always. If hot cars, hot girls, great action and a better than expected story are your thing....Give this a look. A generally good film. 3 Stars.
2003-11-10	5.0	1	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	i watche this movie for the first time when it was first released and i ended up buying the DVD because i loved it soooooo much. The cars are just great! Ever since i bought this DVD i haven't stopped watching it. I luv Suki's car i dream about owning one, and can't wait to have it. But i would have to say that you are crazy if you haven't watched it coz u r missing out on sum serious adreanaline rushing ACTION. So go down to the Video Store and hire it out. You won't wtop watchin it. Bye.
2013-07-28	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Just a simple movie, like all the others. No need to think or plow deeply into the movie. Just watch and enjoy.
2003-07-02	5.0	3	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Let me start out by saying how much fun this movie was!! The action was awesome the acting was average and the directing was good. Some people complain that the some of the car chases amd races are digital effects, that my be, but it makes the car chases really cool, because they do things that you can't do in real life. This is pure brainless fun! My dad even enjoyed it! Leave your brain at home and have a great time! Trust me!
2013-02-06	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	i hate that vin wasn't in the movie, but it's still an amazing movie. it's worth more than 5 stars!
2013-12-31	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	we wanted all the series and were missing a few and now we have the complete set since the tragic death of one of the stars in the movie!
2003-06-15	3.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious was an awesome movie,simply put.The race scenes were the coolest.Making the camera shake when the cars go by was a cool effect.That Suka girl is mighty fine,too.;-) The dailogue is kinda cheesey,but the rest of the movie made up for it big time.
2014-07-02	1.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The movie is a little bit blurry and volume is a little bit rough
2014-01-28	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love the fast and furious series of movies. i love this one due to Eva Mendez's character and of course Paul Walker and Tyrese.
2004-11-15	2.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Paul Walker can act as well as a brick wall. He is that bad.But beyond that the movie is semi-watchable.The Skyline race at the beginning was the highlight of the film and the rest just went downhill. The cars rocked in the first one from old school muscle to tricked Civics and Supras. What do we get in the sequel? Two Mitsubishi stinkers.Did Mitsubishi pay off the director or something to have their dying car lines in the movie?All in all it was an ok popcorn movie but it is a total waste when compared to Diesel and the first movie.
2013-12-07	2.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I had only seen the first Fast movie, so I thought I would watch the others.  After watching this one, I was disappointed.  As nice as it was to See Paul Walker, the plot was horrible.  I plan on watching the others (except Tokyo Drift) & I hope they are not as bad as this one.  Tyrese was okay & I hope his acting improves in the other movies.
2005-02-07	4.0	4	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I personally liked this movie as well as the first.  Granted it relied heavily on Paul Walker but I think he did a great job and Tyrese brought the humor.  It worked well for them...you can tell they had a friendship chemistry because it flowed for them.  I loved this movie and thought the action was there...the cars were neat and I liked the music.In this movie Paul is no longer a cop and is involved in drag racing in order for them not to arrest him they make him a deal to help uncover a drug ring and he tells them he wants to have his own buddy work on the case with him (Tyrese) only problem is Tyrese is on house arrest and lives in a trailer so he can move his house. (Funny!)  They don't really like one another because of some past business, but well work well together!  Together will try and bust the drug ring and to find out if they do watch the movie!  It is worth it!  The racing in this movie is also great along with the cars.  They are tircked out to the max!  If you compare this movie to the first one it is not exactly up to the same speed.  But one its own this movie holds its ground!
2014-01-21	1.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The disc skipped or stopped the whole way through!  A total waste if my money!!  Very unhappy with my product.
2014-07-08	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love these movies!  The best!
2013-12-10	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Had to order after seeing the rest of them.  Love it!  Looking forward to seeing 7 even with Paul Walker being gone.
2003-10-03	5.0	3	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This is better then the original.  First off Miami is a much better location for this kinda movie than LA was in the first.People said the movie would suck cause there was no diesel, they're wrong, Tyrese is better than diesel, and unlike vin diesels character, Tyrese's actually has a sense of humor.  Cars are better too.  The Nissan Skyline itself was sweeter than any car in the first.  The ending was also better, jumping a charger onto a yacht.  This movie doesnt make you think, its a great popcorn flick.
2005-12-29	5.0	3	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I don't know why some people are so critical about this movie. In my opinion, this one was just as good as the first- but not better, because Vin Diesel doesn't play in this one :( I still think it was pretty good though.
2008-01-20	5.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	this was a christmas gift to a family member and she loved it. bought this and tokyo drift...she loves the trilogy! can't stop watching.  recommened to those who like these types of movies
2013-08-31	4.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I liked the original "Fast and Furious" better than this one but then I love Vin Diesel.  Paul Walker is back in this one, though, along with Tyrese Gibson. They make a daring car chase duo.Special effects were fun in the movie. There were a few times I went 'whoa.' I especially liked the semi truck scene.Also, it was nice seeing a couple of American made hot cars in this film.I boughtFast & Furious: 1-5 Bundle [Blu-ray + Digital Copy + UltraViolet] so it's on to #3 Tokyo Drift next. I love these movies.
2014-04-11	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This series is one of my favorites.  Admittedly a guilty pleasure as I'm an American muscle driver though and through, but that doesn't eradicate the joy I get from watching these movies.2 Fast 2 Furious is tied for my second favorite at this point too.  Only Fast Five beats it in my book.  The sequel immediately moved away from street drag racing to more of a rally-style race.  From my own (on track) experience this type of driving is a lot more fun.  Having something of a connection probably help me enjoy it more.The key to any Fast and Furious movie is to go into it expecting nothing more than a thrill-ride experience.  That's exactly what you get in this movie.  If you enjoy fun, car centric movies I can highly recommend 2 Fast 2 Furious (and the rest of the series for that matter).
2013-11-06	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Nothing more to say about The Fast and Furious Movies. This movie adds not only trucks but muscle cars for races.
2013-06-28	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	All I can say is they get better as the series goes on!! Not too shabby!! Good flick for a rainy day
2005-07-25	5.0	2	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I Really liked this movie. So yeah you can tell the jumps and crap is fake but hey it's GOOD!
2005-01-16	2.0	3	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	John Singleton, best known for urban dramas like "Boyz N The Hood" and "Poetic Justice", takes some time off to pay the bills with a commerical property, a sequel to "The Fast And The Furious", 2001's big dumb adrenaline-filled car chase movie starring Vin Diesel. Vin's out of the picture in this one and vanilla-white Paul Walker is stuck carrying the bag with a supporting cast that includes R&B; singer Tyrese (who made his film debut in Singleton's last movie, "Baby Boy") and the beautiful Eva Mendez. Also involved is rapper Ludacris who helps Singleton keep up his "rapper-per-movie quota".Walker's renegade cop Brian O'Connor is back and this time, he's paired with his estranged childhood friend (played by Tyrese) so that they can infiltrate a Miami kingpin's organization. (Don't ask me. I didn't write it.) Walker, who if not for Keanu Reeves, would probably be the least charismatic leading man in cinema history, is still able to blend in as a criminal henchman despite the fact that he looks about as menacing as the cast of "Leave It To Beaver". Tyrese, who seems to forgive and forget his estranged buddy sending him to prison in record time does a decent job overall but it doesn't do much to save this one from being a mess."2 Fast 2 Furious" is a dissapointing sequel to a movie that was for the most part, an overrated full-length car commercial disgusied as a movie. While the original at least had its share of entertaining moments despite its juvenile plot and cardboard characters, this sequel doesn't seem to have such luck. Singleton, who still remains one of my favorite directors despite his involvement in this atrosity, should have known better than to take on this one.
2013-12-18	1.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This did not come with a digital copy!! It was a real disappointment!Don't order this!! It was just the movie!
2014-02-18	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Before seeing 5 and 6 I would have listed this as my favorite. But it's now my 3rd favorite. I love Tyrese, he is so funny.
2013-12-16	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Ordered this as a Christmas gift, got it and it's only blue ray not blue ray and digital... False advertising
2012-11-26	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love this series. It keeps you wanting to know what is going to happen next. I was so surprised when I saw the price. Amazon was the cheapest.
2003-08-31	4.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious, the new action flick starring Paul Walker, Tyrese and Eva Mendes is just reasonable and surprisingly good.  Though I had my doubts for this film, it proved to be better than I anticipated.  Paul Walker improves his acting abilities, and the films somehow works without the presence of Vin Diesel, (who gave a good, solid performance in 2001's The Fast and the Furious).  Though the film has a retread plot, it some how entertains.  The main reason to see this film is the real nice cars and locations in Miami.  Paul Walker returns as cop Brian Earl Spilner and works with his old pal recently released from prison, Roman played by model, singer and actor Tyrese.  Walker and Tyrese must track down a deadly leader, played by Cole Hauser.  Director John Singleton sustains full throttle entertainment with stunning, well choreographed race sequences looking better than those demonstrated in the original.  Also starring rapper Ludrakis and Chanel model Devon Aoki.  Gorgeous Eva Mendes also costars.2 Fast 2 Furious is rated PG-13 for Street Racing, Violence, Some Sensuality and Language.  The violence primarily consists of fisticuffs and less gunplay.  Language and sexuality are also fairly substantial. After viewing it in theatres on opening day, I was rather pleased.  I must say it is worth seeing in theatres and possibly owning on Video and or DVD, see it!
2012-12-29	5.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	My brother is a huge fan of the Fast and Furious series, and for $1.99 this was a great deal!
2009-04-17	1.0	0	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	the item was paid for at the same time as a few other items. I have received them all except for this movie.
2005-05-04	2.0	2	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Even worse than the first, 2f2f showing us that it is not Paul Walker that is making these movies watchable.Tyrese is no better, with more brawn than brains, who teams up with Walker to get back on the good side of the law and bring down a drug lord.So far we have our basic plot, and Rob Cohan does nothing to change the formula except in changing cars and girls. So much for Paul Walker's proclamations of love for Vin's sister.So our to intrepid heroe's are given really hot cars and are sent out on their mission with a pat on the back, and a warning in their ear on not to try anything funny. Tyrese, our hothead, is a macho man who tries to step over the boundries everytime, and often gets into really stupid situations because of his defience. Situations that really don't cause them physical harm which makes them even more macho and sure of them selves in the long run.The cars here aren't as cool, being bulky and loud, plus, the two cars given to Tyrese and Walker give the need to laugh heartily over the green and purple paint jobs on their cars, and wonder what candy shop the pair happened to swipe them at. The driving also leaves some to be desired, what happened to the cool stunts in the first one, where they defied death by swinging in and out under trucks, and racing past speeding trains?Not here, thats for sure, the only suicidiel stunt is in the end where Walker pilots the car off a ramp and onto the fleeing speed boat.How convenient.Overall, this movie did not impress me, but i'm certan that guys will find this to their liking as the girls are plenty, and the cars even more so.
2003-06-15	2.0	9	37	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This follow up to the awful 2001 movie "The Fast and the Furious", although better (with the ax of wooden actor, Vin Diesel) is still is too flawed.  We begin with a street race and we watch as it rediculously turns into a drug bust.  The movie wasn't exciting in the least.  The often failed attempts at humor was quite sickening.  And I hate how they make cops out to be like monsters.  If you really like these kinds of movies I wuld reccomend seeing it when it plays an FX or such because this movie was a waste of seven dollars.  This movie was just a collection of criminal-glorifying chase-scenes with a higher budget than usual.  Go see The Italian Job instead and while your at it thank the cops for what a wondeful heroic job they are doing, risking their lives for our well being.  What I don't get is how these criminals get involved with a drug-bust.  Only reccomended to die-hard "Fast and the Furious" fans.  A nice popcorn muncher otherwise if you must see a movie and you've seen Bruce Almighty, Finding Nemo, or The Italian Job.
2009-04-16	5.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I can't understand how people can say this sequal is not as good or not better than the first.Do you miss Vin? He's kinda irrelevant to this story. The action is there. great driving and stunts. Paul Walker is just a fun guy to watch. I recommend it. I own it and watch it all the time.
2003-10-01	5.0	4	9	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	this movie is definitely a must! the first was definitely one was the best films ever!, and with all the many hot actors/actress' this films kick @$$. I love it! I like this movie so good that I actually bought the same car as Brian has in the movie...the Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 2003. There are so many cool cars and the plot is good. There is one part where Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker) and Roman Pierce (Tyrese) are trying to escape from the police and they go into a garage...before you know it thousands of cars flee from the 20 door garage! It is definitely one of the most thought out movies. You might thinks its a guy flick considering the hot girls and cars, but my friends dig Paul Walker and Tyrese. Did i mension that Ludacris and Eva Mendes are in it to. Well ludacris doesn't race, although, he is definitely TIGHT! The first movie was great, although, it gets boring once you watch it about 20 times, believe me. This movie definitely doesn't. The many cars, the setting, and the coloring are amazing. I see a lot of movies! I'm talking a lot. I see probably 9 out of 10 movies playing in theatres every time one comes out. I am telling you whoever is a Fast and the Furious fan will love this, and if u havent seen the first see it and then watch this one! its awesome! When this came into theatres on June 6th, 2003 and its now October 1st, 2003, I went right from school with two of my friends and saw it. I get out at 2:10 and i saw a 2:45 show. Believe it or not the theatre was still packed at 2:45 with school kids and everything. Iv'e only been to a couple of movies besides star wars and the lord of the rings where people clapped, they certainly clapped straight through this one, and to you ladies Tyrese rips his shirt off, just for a little change of heart which i can't believe somebody would have anything to say bad against this film anyway. Director: John Singleton has true talent. This movie is a must. 5 STARS! 10 OUT OF 10! TWO THUMBS UP! FIRES ON ALL CYLINDERS!! BUY IT TODAY!! 2 FAST 2 FURIOUS 2 DAY!!!
2010-04-05	5.0	7	7	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Just as good as the first one, to bad Vin Diesel did not stay on. But Paul Walker, that handsome man, was great. I would recommend everyone to look at that movie also.
2013-01-31	5.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The cars are great! None of these movies have a complicated plot or unpredictable story line, but who cares?! The cars are cool!!
2013-06-29	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Completes my collection and is very entertaining!  Looking forward to the next movie (six and seven) as these great entertainment!
2009-09-23	3.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Lordy Lord! Another crap sequel from the Hollywood stable of rubbish rehashes. I had low expectations of this movie....it doesn't have Vin Diesel in it for a start. But what I got was a collection of wooden actors and cheesy lines, interspersed with "race" sequences that made me laugh a lot. I should have realised it was going to be dire literally from the get-go. The Universal logo mutates into a chrome-plated wheel in the most irritatingly ludicrous manner. So what is so horrible about this film? For a start the acting sucks worse than a Dyson. The opening race meet scene had me cringing in my seat, hoping it would get better. It didn't. Then there's the plot, or lack of one. Let's rehash the first film and nobody'll notice. Bah!  The scripting is awful. The hero's buddy (name escapes me due to disinterest) actually steals something from a supposed drug-baron (again not sure if he was a drug-baron, was fighting the urge to read the paper at the time) whilst the latter is offering him a job. Come on! That makes about as much sense as ....well....nothing! You just would not do that, unless you were the world's most retarded individual. Sadly, his character survives the movie. Then there's the villain's two goons, who come across as stereotypical thick grunts who haven't had an original thought between them for years. Tiresomely predictable.  The cars all look like they've escaped from a Scalextric set, with the exception of the hero's racer, which has had the "mobile tanning salon" upgrade. Damn, but he's gonna get skin cancer and cattaracts if he continues to drive that! Then you have to wonder just what sort of engine can accelerate a car from 0-80 in gasp!, only 20 seconds! Such speed! G-Forces pulling.....can't continue.....review.....must hit....brake! Yep, I could take my old Vauxhall Vectra out and give these machines a run for their money! Twenty seconds....sheeeshh!  The crowning hilarity regarding the race scenes was that a) the cars apparently needed nitrous to reach 100mph, and b) When they hit the nitro the cars went into hyperspace. I'm serious! Everything blurred and streaked past. Everytime it happened I kept expecting to see Chewbacca pop up from the back, waving a wrench and going "Whoooaarrhg!" Give me a break! I have to say this had me in stitches every time it happened but I'm surprised they didn't resort to burning tire-tracks a la Back to the Future as well. So lame.  Another annoying fact is that Hollywood seems to think that 80mph is fast and 100mph only reachable by real racer types. Obviously they've never been on any British motorway. And our hero clocked 150mph in his death-defying leap off a bridge. It would all perhaps seem more impressive than it was, if the streets were narrower, or you actually cared about any of the characters. Or that a motorcyclist wasn't clocked on the M1 doing 157 mph. And he didn't even have R2D2 on the back, much less Chewie.  So, underwhelmed would be the best word to sum up this film. The racing isn't exciting, the acting is bad and the plot is some Miami Vice reworking with incredulous bits thrown in for bad measure. All in all, a better name for this film might have been "The Dull and the Repetitive"
2008-04-01	4.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Out of all the sequels that came out in the summer of 2003 I have to say the one I was the most excited about was 2 Fast 2 Furious. I remeber W]walking out of an advance screening and among the crowd I saw the film many of us were saying better than the first, they didn't need Vin etc etc. John Singleton who for the record is a much better director than Rob Cohen has crafted a film that non race fans, fans of the first and those in in the mood for a good time can all enjoy. The film starts with an nice litte race between four characters in the movie and we then have our plot set up. Brian (Paul Walker) is promised a clean record if he helps the Feds bring down Carter Verone (Cole Hauser). Brian agress only if his old friend Roman Pearce (Tyrese Gibosn) can help him. What then follows is full of eye candy in the form of cars , beautiful women and action sequences. A lot of people don't want to see this moive because it lacks the Diesel but who cares he's gone there isn't one mention of Domonic Toretto or anyone from the first film for that matter. This is Brian's story but once again his costar and sidekick Tyrese steals this movie from him. Ludacris also does a great job in his first big movie and has more than five mintues of screen time unlike Ja Rule in the first film. All in all a fun film that truly is what summer movie are about having fun. Leave your ambitions and doubts at the door and just go in and have fun with this one .
2003-08-14	1.0	3	6	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	You know, I have no idea who on earth gave this lame turkey of a movie the green light to being made.Sure, I'll go for some brainless adrenaline-drenched fun from time to time but unfortunately, even when I'm in a "I just want to have fun" mood, "2 Fast 2 Furious" fails in just about everyway it could. In fact, it FAILS COMPLETELY!Lots of the negative elements that dogged down the first one were mostly balanced out by excellent visual effects and enjoyable, if not realistic actions scenes and resulted in a movie that was fun but stupid all at the same time. Sadly, I cannot say the same thing aobut the sequel. This movie is just DUMB, without being fun.Whatever went wrong with this, really went wrong. What really disgusts me in this movie, as well as the first one is that it totally reduces the woman down to just mere 'objects'! The girls in this one are FAR, FAR worse than those from the first one. I don't mean to sound like I'm a shallow, superficial punk but THEY ARE TOTALLY HIDEOUS AND SICKENING TO LOOK AT!! Blech! I in no way am implying that sexuality is evil. Quite the contrary, sexuality is beautiful but it makes me sick to see how they portray girls as mere 'objects' in movies like this. At least 95 percent of casual girls I see in my neighborhood, look FAR more attractive than alot of the characters in this movie. I might be taking heat for bashing them but I totally stand by my verdict. When it comes to a good female character in a movie, I'd rather take class and intelligence anyday over mere bare skin! None of the female characters looked attractive at all. That one character (I forget her name) looks more like an alien from outer space! She's HIDEOUS!!! I don't mean to sound like a superficial person but holy mother of God, they are just repulsive to a maximum degree!The souped-up cars may be cool to watch but this is just a rehashed version of the first F&F; movie, without the fun of that one. In fact, "2 Fast" felt more like a bad 2 hour long NASCAR commercial with excessive amounts of MGM Grand colors thrown in.Maybe I'm just growing up, maybe I'm getting too old for this dragracing stuff but "2 Fast 2 FUrious" is just a complete pile of cinematic manure. This garbage is primarily aimed at lowlifes who know nothing more than to throw tantrums because his/her parents can't afford to buy him/her a brand spanking new car!But hey, I might have bashed this movie to pieces with this review but even then, I'm against censorship so don't let me stop you from seeing this. I just wanted to let you know that there are MUCH better movies out there that deliver lots more than this turkey. Go see "Terminator 3: Rise of The Machines" instead as it has FAR superior action. Or dive into the first and third "Indiana Jones" movies instead. Believe me, the cars may have been really old-fashioned but the car chase scenes in these two movies are FAR more intelligent and truckloads more fun than these sportcar races. If you want to see a bunch of sportcar races, go watch a NASCAR race or better yet, attend a NASCAR racing event like the Indianapolis 500. At least the adrenaline is right in front of you.Hollywood owes us an apology for this mess.
2013-07-18	2.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Not as good as the first one, but worth the watch if there absolutely nothing else on. Check It out.
2004-04-06	1.0	2	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I saw this movie at my friend's house, and it was terrible. Stupid movie. Unrealistic, stupid, pathetic movie. Part one was alright, and I was expecting something a little better. Guess not.
2014-02-18	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	goes great with the rest of the movie series. would recommend to anyone who likes the others movies. buy it
2008-02-02	3.0	2	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious is your typical sequal.  The actions scenes and effects nearly double that of the original.  We have a returning character - Brian O Conner (Paul Walker), with the rest of the cast composed of fresh faces that don't carry the same charm from the firt film.  Then there is the story, script and dialouge - all felt thrown together with the excuse to produce a sequal so we can get another chance at more tricked out rides and races.  Unfortunately unlike its predacessor, all that leaves an impression in the end is the race action.The film begins right away with an explosive street race in Miami at night, which I found more enjoyable than the street race in the first F&F; film.  In fact, this is one of the best action senes of the movie.  At the finish line, cops arrive soon after and take in Brian, who is already wanted for helping Torretto escape in the first film.  Brian's record can be wiped clean if he plays ball by going undercover and busting a big dealer in the area - Verone.  Brian requests that his old pal "Roman Pierce" (Tyrese) accompany him to complete the deal.  The pair go undercover, working for Verone, where another undercover (Eva Mendes) joins them.  The whole Miami-drug dealer plotline felt too cliche, so it added very little interest for me.  Verone was very boring as the villain and his men are laughably bad and uninteresting.  The script and dialouge only adds to the problem, making the film as a whole seem very juvenille and thrown together as compared to the first film.The races and cars are obviously the reason to watch this.  The first street race is probably the best, but there are numerous other races and cop chases on the highways throughout the film too.  The driving felt faster and more intense this time around.  Unlike the first film, we do not nearly get to see into these vehicles as much and what makes them tick (except the gps units the cops installed to watch both Brian and Rome).  The two cars that they are given to drive in are nice, but like the owners of the two muscle cars in the film say, kinda look like "cracker jack toys".  They just didn't have as strong appeal as the rides in the first film either.  The bonus this time around was the muscle cars.  There are several race and chase scenes involving these beautiful machines.  So if you are into American muscle, there is definelty more of that this time around.This is an ok sequal, pretty average as far as sequals go.  If you loved the first for the cars and races, you should be satisfied with 2F2F.  However, the rest of the movie doesn't carry much else to even the load.This dvd (just like the Fast and the Furious Tricked Out Edition) contains a 6 minute short film of Brian's journey from L.A. to Miami, which sets up the beginning of this film.Acting - 3Action - 4Characters - 3Story - 3Overall - 3.5
2007-01-18	4.0	0	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	When I first seen 2 Fast 2 Furious, it wasn't all that to me.  I first watched this movie with my old tv so that can be called "480i" television.By the time I got an new HDTV from Wal-Mart, it an Sanyo model: DP26746 Integrated HDTV.. I had my Playstation 3 hook up to that HDTV with HDMI cable and play that movie in the slot and the quality looks so good, I had to adjust my brightness a little dark. Well  thats all I can say about this movie, it has the best picture and the story is just average but fun.  So, if u get the same device i have.. you will see what I am talking about.  My HDTV display resolution at 1366 x 768 WXGA screen, so you know it is above 720p and less than 1080i/1080p but great picture on screen.
2013-04-09	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Bought this as a gift for my fiance. She loves the series and now has all the movies. You can't beat a Blu-ray!
2012-12-28	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Wat to say about this movie besides Paul Walker, Tyrese and My NI**A LUDA!!! One of My Favorite of the Series and of corse Roman's Mitsubishi lol
2003-10-23	5.0	3	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Too Fast Too Furious was ann awesome movie.But it's only awesome to those who like Street Racing Automobiles.I personally thought it was better than the first movie because it showed more detailed cars.Overall, I hope they make a thirds one that would include Tyrese and Vin Deisal along with the blonde guy. I think that movie would explode at the Box Office.
2011-09-29	4.0	4	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	While this movie is not super plausible and definitely not an Oscar winner, it is very entertaining between fast cars and racing and watching the actors strut their stuff.  It is not one that you watch to enrich your life, you watch it because it's just a lot of fun and a great escape!
2005-06-11	5.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love this movie. It will have you out of your seat every minute. I like japanese cars and street racing, so this movie is perfect for me. And this movie has my 3 favorite cars, the Nissan Skyline, Toyota Supra, and Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution. There are also Honda S2000, Mitsubishi Eclipse, Mazda RX-7, and a lot of other good cars. This movie has better acting than the first one. Tyrese actually makes the movie a little funny.
2004-01-17	4.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I think this movie is actually good, nothing wrong with it. Only the last jump was really unrealistic, but hey it's a movie for something (cause u can't do stuff like that in real life). Fast n furious 1 was a 5 for me, but i think they could have chosen a better car than the Lancer Evo, not that it's ugly but there r whay much nicer cars. Anyway, still a good movie.
2003-07-17	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	"2 Fast 2 Furious" is better than the original "The Fast And The Furious". It has more action and the cars and races are better.  In the first one, Vin Diesel's in it. But he is absent in this one. The plot of the movie goes like this. Former LAPD Cop Brian O' Connor (Paul Walker) is sent on a mission. He must go to Miami to find and capture a drug dealer, Carter Verone. But O' Connor needs help from an old friend, Roman Pierce (Tyrese). Another cop, Monica Fuentes (Eva Mendes), must go undercover as Verone's girlfriend. O' Connor's friend, Tej (Ludacris), helps with the mission in some ways. With the great special effects, action, and cars, "2 Fast 2 Furious" is the hottest movie of the summer.
2003-06-06	1.0	0	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I don't believe it. First, they made "Fast and the Furious", probably the dumbest movie of 2001. Now, they made a sequel, a "trikkd-out noo DVD", T-Shirts, the whole shebang. This movie franchise pushes more you-know-what than an incontinent elephant. OK, this one doesn't have Vin Diesel (who gets my award for Worst Actor Ever), but it still has all the social significance of the Anna Nicole Smith show. I mean, really, was that car getting run over by the tractor trailer supposed to look even REMOTELY real? It looked like it was made of plastic. Also, let me guess: no plot? Didn't think so. This summer, do yourself a favor and don't waste your time or money on this claptrap. See Terminator 3: The Rise Of The Machines instead.And you KNOW I am through.
2013-07-09	3.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	It was better than some of the other of that genre, however, my complaint is that you don't offer captioning which I need at times.  I hope you make this adjustment soon.
2003-10-12	3.0	1	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Fueled by low expectations, 2 Fast 2 Furious (what an awful title) far surpassed its predecessor, exceeding as the movie I expected the original to be. 2F2F has much more action, more outrageous stunts, a plot that I find better suited to this material, and an even sexier cast of scantily-dressed women. For a little over an hour-and-a-half, I was in big-budget, B-movie heaven.Brian O'Connor (Paul Walker) is no longer with the LAPD, stripped of his badge after the events of the first film. Now in Miami, he makes his earnings through illegal street racing, something that proves to be an easy task for him. But after one particular (and superbly exhilarating) race where he comes out the big winner, he's caught by federal agents and forced to work undercover to nab a powerful drug lord named Carter Verone (Cole Hauser).They've already got an agent undercover, Monica Fuentes (Eva Mendes), but have yet to pin Verone on anything serious. To infiltrate Verone's empire, O'Connor teams up with old friend and ex-con Roman Pearce (Tyrese Gibson); together, they make for a wild and dangerous driving duo, performing transportation tasks for Verone, including one final assignment that could prove particularly dangerous for O'Connor and Pearce.2F2F, as with most big-budget blockbuster sequels, ups the ante on its predecessor; it's bigger, louder, much faster, and in this case, a whole lot more fun. The race/chase sequences are far more elaborate (unlike the original, when these guys race they actually turn curves and drive pretty long distances, rather than a mere mile-long straight line as in the original) and they're in greater abundance here, a smart move since we're clearly here to watch hardcore automotive stunts, not plot.The story is every bit as dumb as you'd expect from such a lame title, but at least it gives the characters goals and genuine obstacles to overcome (unlike the original, which basically had its &quot;heroes&quot; trying to steal dvd players from trucks in broad daylight). The twists and turns are all easily forseeable (what are the chances Verone won't find out these guys are working undercover?), but the story rarely gets in the way of the action.2F2F boasts three major action setpieces, each of them successively more impressive than the setpiece it follows. The opening race is a doozy and by itself, more exciting than the whole of the first movie. Another race early in the movie puts our heroes (and multiple &quot;tryouts&quot;) in a test to retrive a package in an auto pound 20 miles away, with Walker even driving backwards on the highway at one point. It's the climax that clinched the movie for me, a twenty-minute sequence with cop cars and choppers chasing O'Connor and Pearce, the whole thing concluding with an outrageous but exhilarating stunt between a car and a boat.Even as a B-movie, 2F2F isn't perfect. At a restrictive PG-13, the opportunity for profanity, edgy violence, and nudity is gone. The latter, in particular, is rather irksome. The leading ladies, Eva Mendes and Devon Aoki, are almost as good a reason as all the car stunts to watch the movie. Aoki probably boasts the best-looking body I've seen all year long (a lot of people have criticized her face, but I find it quite uniquely pretty), nice eye candy enhanced by some tight outfights. More screen time for her would have been appreciated.The movie probably could have benefited from the presence of Vin Diesel, but I also have a hard time seeing him fitting into the proceedings. Besides, Walker and Tyrese make an acceptable pairing, the latter of whom delivers an enthusiastically energetic performance. Walker has the straight man role, which is just fine for his rather limited acting skills (though some bad acting on his part is apparent from scene to scene). Cole Hauser makes for a solid villain, and Eva Mendes is strictly eye candy as Walker's love interest (whether or not she's got any talent remains to be seen).2F2F delivers what's expected of it, it may be one of the summer's dumber offerings, but it's undeniably also one of the more thrilling ones, too. If another sequel is ever made (and judging from the box office results, I'd say that's a safe bet), let's hope profanity, edgy violence, and nudity will be thrown into the mix.
2013-08-29	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love these movies! Had to get it for the collection. I'm a fast and furious fan, I love all the movies.
2013-05-18	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The only bad thing about it was it didn't have Vin Diesel. Otherwise its a very enjoyable and fun movie. Cool cars. Cool driving and races. Good actors. Good movie all around.
2012-03-11	5.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	love it, all the accion togther and very good price,recommendet for any body the licke cars and mystery,same time you can see all the accion at the owe time
2005-08-27	5.0	3	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I found this movie to be worth a lot of fun before it was a lot of fun, and that is because everyone in the movie got along so well. The leadership behind the movie shows through in a-typical ways lending a deafening mode to the good beating out the bad guys. You can't say that it is loud justice, because you would never hear it; but in never betraying sophistication, it makes a towering intellectual victory. All of the scenes and stunts are absolutely devouring and the attention paid to the plot by the actors is at the very least a true marvel. And everything else is what happens when everything I just said, happens!
2013-12-20	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie is awesome! It's action packed from start to end! Fun to watch from the edge of your seat!
2005-03-22	4.0	3	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This is the sequal to the first movie, but in this movie paul walker isn't a cop anymore and is involved in drag racing now. One night he goes out dragging, and gets busted. In order for him not to get arrested, they make him a deal to help uncover a drug bust. They try to pick out a partner for him but he says he wants to pick his own or he wont' do the job.  He picks his homeboy tyrese who is on house arrest, but they say if they both bust this case, they would take everything off his record.
2003-10-02	3.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I give this movie 3 stars because some of the cars are cool and Devon Aoki is very hot. The things that suck about this movie are the acting, (especially Paul Walker, it makes me cringe to watch this guy act) Ludacris (what a clown) and all the moronic rap music. Isn't this garbage out of style yet.
2013-12-26	3.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Love the idea of this movie but for whatever reason the writers and decision makers just kept swaying from original story to far in my opinion... But is still filled with Fast Cars, Pretty Women and Lots of Action,  I give it 3 stars.
2014-01-11	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Vin Diesel, but I thought Tyrese did quite well with Paul Walker, still enjoyed it. If you're a fan of the franchise, check this movie out.
2009-06-01	4.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie has a strange appeal.It not only brings out your atavistic side but it also shows a simple and very often touching comradery not only between the two main characters but also the entire group of the good "bad" guys.The plot is simple and mindless but it is a great ride, particularly on a 57" HD TV.
2013-07-15	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This is a fun and high energy movie! Delivers high powered cars and insane driving stunts. Makes you want to continue with this movie franchise.
2005-07-24	1.0	2	6	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I don't really even need to write anything about this movie because the word "Horrible" describes it. I mean, you haven't seen bad movies until you've seen this. None of the lame jokes are funny, you know what's going to happen before watching it, the chases are stupid because you already know who's going to win and the movie is SO HORRID THAT THEY HAVE TO SHOW YOU AWESOME CARS. Think about it, after you see the cars, you'll be like, oh, those cars are awesome and therefore you forget about the movie. The plot is so awfu and predictable and the acting is awful. It's cheesy and is probably one of the worse movies ever. Enough said. I wouldn't even get payed to own this or see it again and if I ever see a copy again, I'll probably set it on fire.
2012-05-04	2.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Ok,I'll be honest when I started this movie from the opening credits, I knew that this would not live to rival the fist. My fist point, with this realization is the underground racing wardrobe, was F A K E FAKE. From the weird jewelry to stereotyped shirts and pants. Secondly, the written dialog was awful and tried too hard to cool. It was not believable in the least bit. Thirdly the fact that it also drags in the middle and makes me want to skipped forward twenty minuets or so. When I got this I was expecting the racing action that I loved in the fist one. Instead of the great peal off nitrous shots the the "warp-drive" with the nitrous shots was a little hard to watch without getting a headache. Although  some great racing scenes  it should have included more, the only race scenes worth watching are the opening scene, the derby scene, and the ending chase scene. Oh I forgot those are the only race scenes. It would have been ok as a Miami Vice script, but not a Fast and Furious. Whatever the first one gave this series the second one wasted it. Universal, what were you thinking.
2003-11-13	2.0	0	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	if I hear one more person say this movie was better then the first.. I might just cut his berrys off and make fruitpunch. this movie was good but not as good as they made it sound (coff!,MTV aka the youth brainwashing channel,coff!).i guess the biggest reason I hate this movie so much is tyrese.(Mr.im a hardcore thug eversince I made babyboyoh yah and paul walker :) (Mr. look at me I always have my hair combed nice and clean little shirts on) sorry that was all I could come up with :(and ludacris? well atleast they didnt get Ja Rule again i guessbut anyway the film was less realistic this time around then the first. meaning the whole jump a car on a boat thing and um, the whole all i gotta do is go in this building and a gazillion billion fricking cars come racing out to throw off cops(all that happend in like 15 minutes? ludacris called all them people?)the extras on the dvd are a pluss lots a stuff in therea little complicating but it pays off I guesssome movies just shouldnt have sequals and this is one a them, this is a story not a frickin trilogy.cant wait to 20000times faster 20000times furiouswhen paul walker and whoever is in space shipsok thats all, screw this movieima go wach mtv (pun intended)
2013-07-30	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Sequels are hard to do especially when the previous sequel didn't do so well. I like this one as a follow up to the original. Well done action and stunts.
2014-01-27	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Great movie!!!!  Actually one of my favs from the trilogy.A must see!! Tyresse an Paul really have  great chemistry together in this one.
2014-06-21	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	We went through the Fast and furious series from start to current in prep for FF6s release so over the course of 2-3 weeks we saw the first 5 movies. it was a fun ride, Oh side note we did not watch Tokyo drift all the way through it was not really part of the time line, sorry.
2014-01-13	3.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious (2003). Rated "PG-13". Running Time: One Hour, 47 mins.This is the second movie in the Fast and Furious film series.Returning: Paul Walker, Thom Barry, Neal H. Moritz.The previews had to play through before I could get to option menu. After the previews, you wil be asked to choose your ride: The purple car, green car or pink car.  All choices will include Exclusives, spotlight on the actor, The Ride, Driving School and Bonus Material.By choosing the green car, you will be given a "Turbo-Charged" prelude to this movie, a short film, from the first Fast and Furious movie before the beginning of the second movie.From the prelude short film you saw, Brian (Paul Walker) is now in Miami, Florida. A racing gang under control by Tej (Ludacris) closes a street with "Road Closed" signs to get it ready for an illegal street race. Paul is invited to race with Suki (Devon Aoki), Orange Julius (Amaury Nolasco) and Slap Jack (Michael Ealy).After the race, Brian is captured by the Miami police. They know he is formerly of the L.A.P.D. They need Brain to help them go after Carter Verone (Cole Hauser) and his cartel.Also in the cast: Tyrese Gibson, James Remar, Roberto Sanchez, Eva Mendes, Jin Avyeung, Edward Finlay, Corey Michael Eubanks, Jose Perez.Filmed in Miami, West Palm Beach, Virginia key, Weston, Cape Canaveral, Boca raton, Hollywood, Homestead, Key West and the Seven Mile Bridge in Florida.In-film advertising: Pepsi, SoBe, Goodrich.Option of language: English 5.1, French 5.1, Spanish 5.1.Option of Subtitles: English, French, Spanish.Feature Commentary with director John Singleton.Bonus materials: Inside 2 Fast 2 Furious. Deleted Scenes, Outtakes. Tricking Out A Hot Import Car. more bonuses.The Fast and the Furious (Blu-ray + DVD + Digital Copy)(2001).2 Fast 2 Furious (2003).The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift (Blu-ray + Digital Copy + UltraViolet)(2006).Fast & Furious (2009) [Blu-ray] (2009).Fast Five (Extended Version)(2011).Fast & Furious 6 - Extended Edition [HD] (2013)Update: Paul Walker died November 30, 2013 in the fire of a car accident while attending a charity event in Valencia, California. Fast and Furious 7 has been re-written and will complete Walker's scenes using his brothers, Caleb and Cody, as stand-ins and voice actors and with CGI-effects.Fast and Furious 7 will be released April 3, 2015. Kurt Russell and Jason Statham have joined the cast.
2008-11-19	4.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The level of absurdity and ridiculousness in John Singleton's "2 Fast 2 Furious" is irrelevant. If I were to launch a scathing attack citing its thin story, one-dimensional characters and lack of dialogue as the reason for my distaste towards it, I would be the dumb one. This is a film that delivers exactly what it promises and I have to admire it for that reason.Paul Walker is back as Brian O'Connor, the former Los Angeles undercover cop who let Vin Diesel go free at the end of the first installment. (Diesel, who shot to fame after the release of the original film chose not to return to the franchise.) Now in Miami, a dishonored Brian becomes once again embroiled in the world of illegal street racing that is as usual populated with car loads of hot babes, bad guys, and masses of extras on the sidelines. Despite his poor record, O'Conner is confronted by the police who promise to clear his name if he goes undercover as the driver for an evil drug lord named Carter Verone (Cole Hauser) whose main function in the story is to convincingly set up a series of outlandish set pieces and provide the good characters with offers they can't refuse.While Diesel's character is missed, the screenwriters have supplied Walker with another fiery foil in Roman Pearce, played with great vigor by Tyrese Gibson. Also along for the ride is Monica Fuentes, a sexy customs agent played by Eva Mendes who has been posing as Verone's girlfriend for the past nine months.But who cares about characters in a movie like this? The action that is the main focus here and Singleton, who is best known for his 1991 drama "Boys N the Hood", is surprisingly well suited for the genre. His need and love of speed is clear throughout the movie and each action sequence seems to build off the previous one. Instead of focusing on character development and the grit and harshness of the surrounding Miami landscape, he is more concerned with the thrill of the chase, the roars of the engines, and the flashes of painted chrome. The end result is both fast and furious.
2013-05-30	5.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Not Shakespear people, doesn't even really have a strong plot, but there are fast cars and great stunts, so worth watching especially since the series seems to never end, you may want to keep up
2012-12-19	5.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This is a wonderful movie to watch from begin to end... What a different movie from the others movies that they have made...........
2012-12-20	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	What can I say about this DVD 2 Fast 2 Furious love the movie and have bought all the others DVDs of The Fast and Furious, I really enjoy watching these movies and will watch them over and over. Sincerely Janice
2003-09-24	4.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This is one movie that lived up to the original and then some.  I was one that thought with the omission of Vin Diesel that this movie would be bad.  Although after watching it, I was forced to say Vin Diesel who?  Tyrese did a great job as the second man in the movie and Paul Walker did a good job of taking over the leading role.  It starts off a little far fetched with the cars in the beginning of the movie, but it gets better from there on in.  The only thing it did not have was a romantic interest.  Paul Walker comes close in a couple of scenes but nothing ever happens.  But this movie is not supposed to be a love story.  It definitely lives up to its title--2 fast 2 furious...go see it or buy it.
2013-06-23	1.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I purchased a DVD here and it was for a different system and did not play on my DVD in the USA. No disclaimer, they shipped it to me and then, they did not exchange it for me, they gave me a reimbursement but I still had to pay for shipping twice!
2013-07-29	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I think the Fast and Furious movies are a heck of a lot of fun. This is my least favorite of the series - but it's still a 5 star movie IMO. If you liked the first one, I'd suggest checking it out.
2004-10-09	5.0	3	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Its hard to say if this one is better than the original as there are differences between the two. First off the first had people you could really care about because it had the tension and acceptance for Brian and the drama of the gang finding out he was a cop. This one on the other hand is so fast paced that you can't tell what people are really thinking and what their reaction is going to be (Well it is Miami you know). This movie shows more about the cars and really, how tricked out they could be, expecially with great neons lights added to them (nice computer graphics there with the racing sequences as well). Pretty much the plot is Brian is on the run from helping a fugitive back in Fast and the Furious. He gets muscled by the FBI to either take down a drug lord by being one of his drivers. He tells the FBI that he wants to bring another driver with him and to have his record cleaned as well (which would of looked good with Vin being there). Lots of speed, sarcasm diaglog and great cars with the girls that go with them, this movie is meant to be a high impact fast paced movie. The only problem that I had was that Mia (Brians love interest from the first movie) was nowhere in this movie which almost made no sense since you had the impression that they were still good together when the first movie ended. If you like fast paced action or cars in general, a great movie to check out. If you don't like them... well see it anyways.
2013-07-29	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Paul Walker = yum! It's the perfect &#34;I'm bored and don't know what to watch&#34; movie. I would recommend it to the following demographics: Kids 8-15, and adults 18-35.
2013-01-12	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	no scratches :) Love the product. will order again in the near future. Thanks so very very much!!!!! :)  :)
2013-02-03	1.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This DVD NEVER work!!!! I guess that chip products gives you chip resolt.... but in this case was even worse, since the DVD NEVER WORK!!!! I will never get another DVD from this company!!!!
2014-02-18	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Great movie I was missing this one in my set. Was nice to find it at reasonable price. My set is complete well until 7 comes out. :)
2014-03-09	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love the fast furious movies and this movie was one of my favorites! Paul and Vin are great actors, very pleased with this product
2014-06-24	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	cool fun movie, recommended if you want to smile and have a fun time watching. not bad as a sequel cuz..
2011-08-10	4.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	good movie nothing much to say that other reviews have not said shipped and rec on time would buy again.
2003-09-15	4.0	3	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I saw the movie '2 Fast & 2 Furious' in a theater and I'll say it's perfectly upgraded from previous movie of that.We can see a lot of luxurious tuning cars, exciting scenes with more interesting synopsis. It's really cool.You'll love 'growling and roaring' engine sound, too. You can hear that almost every scene on newly upgraded version.I wanna recommend this movie for those who has a hobby and been interested in cool rides. :-)I hope it has DTS sound core on released dvd. I don't know why it doesn't have DTS track on that as previous version of 'Fast and Furious.'.If it is released with DTS sound track, I'll must buy it. :-)
2004-02-06	5.0	2	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	It's not so bad as some peoples say.I like the customized cars this is why I rate it 5 stars.We can see a Nissan Skyline GT-R 00', Honda S2000 V-Tec, Toyota Supra RZ, Mitsubishi Lancer Evo. VII !...The guest appearence: Tyrese &amp; Ludacris.I recommend this movie to all the street racings and all who turns around the customized cars...
2003-10-06	3.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	There's no Vin Diesel this time around and I thought a sequel would  suck without him but...it doesn't. Tyrese (Babyboy) is a fun replacement and it's obvious that he's having a lot of fun in the movie as well. Some people have said Paul Walker can't act and that he doesn't have much of a presence without Vin Diesel. I can't say I had a problem with him though and think he does ok without Diesel. He's not the strongest leading man but he has good chemestry with Tyrese and they make a good buddy team. The cars and women make the movie good as well lol. It's not as serious as the first and doesn't have much of a drama feel to it at all like the first one did. The racing and other action scenes are handled well and this is a fun movie. The little Dukes of Hazard stunt at the end with the car flying on top of a boat is the only problem I had with the movie. It's not as good of an action climax as the film could've used. The confrontation between the heroes and the villain at the end is disapointing as well. The original had much more interesting characters and the end is better in thaht one too. 2 Fast 2 Furious has a lot more action and car chases though and they're entertaining.
2003-06-06	5.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I Saw The First One And Loved It. I Didn't Think This Would Work Because It Didn't Continue On The Friendship Of Brian And Domonic. This Had Me Thinking That Tyrese Is A Much Worse Actor But ... Was I Ever More Wrong. This Movie Was All Action And 0 Plot But Runs On It's Own. You Don't Need To Have Seen The First To See This. It Starts Off With An Adrenaline Pumping Car Chase Held By Ludacris's Charector Where Brian Jumps Over An Bridge. He Gets Arrested But Only To Get Asked To Help Find Carter Verone " Cole Hauser " And Get Him Caught.  Verone Isn't A Good Man. His Undercover Cop Girlfriend Is Pretending To Love Him The Whole Time But I Couldn't Help But Notice The Chemistry Between Her And Brian. Tyrese Plays Roman Pierce. He's Slick As Ever. Cole Hauser Made A Tottally Kicking Villain. Paul Walker Had Another Stellar Performance And... Eva Mendes Is Too Hot. Go See This And Enjoy. I Will Definetly Be First In Line When The DVD Is Released. Peace.
2014-04-04	3.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I like Paul Walker.  Watched for Marc Blucas as an advertisement said he was in it, but I didn't see him.  Lots of good action.
2013-05-09	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	hello,it took us a while to get back into watching this chapter in the whole series.  after watching the first one, this one seemed lacking at the beginning and we could not finish it.  then one day, after watching the first fast and furious again, this movie just happen to be available, so we watched it and liked what we saw.  it still is not as good as the first one, the acting is a little over the top, but it was fun and enjoyable after the second try.  after all, it is a fantasy action movie.  but, the whole series is vin diesel and paul walker.  we just added it to our collection.
2012-12-13	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This is the best movie ever. Fast cars, more fast cars, and then EVEN MORE FAST CARS! Does not disappoint.
2003-12-05	5.0	1	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	the movie to me seems to be one of the bestamong the best
2011-01-03	3.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Click Click Boom! Does this story make me get excited and giddy, well the answer is nah the only film worse then this with Paul Walker is "In to the Deep" but that's another story. What really excites me about his film is that it's a sequel to one of my favorite films of all time. This movie is defintely cheesy and very very unbelievable. But hey I still enjoy it, it's refreshing seeing Paul Walker still young not like in the 4th movie and now 5th movie that's about to be released. Overall it's a fun cheesy film. Enjoy!
2005-08-09	5.0	2	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I HAVE TO SAY THAT THIS IS IS AN EXCELLENT, FAST PACED, WILD AND CRAZY JOY RIDE MOVIE....MY 3 YR OLD SON ACTS OUT THE MOVIE....TALK ABOUT CUTE....I GIVE THIS 2 THUMBS UP FOR SURE....
2006-08-19	2.0	0	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	... Tyrese Gibson, for WORST ACTOR EVER.  Up to this point, I've been a huge Paul Walker fan for his comedically bad acting.  He's made a career of it.  In this one, his impressive acting techniques involve the use of the word "bro" at least 75 times (to give his character street cred), and thoughtfully rubbing his chin during meetings with the other cops - it's clear Walker is deeply considering his plight.  But really Walker can't hold a candle to the absolutely atrocious acting of Tyrese Gibson.  My god where did they find this guy?  The movie would've been OK as a standard, mindless action film, but it really was ruined by the 6th grade drama club acting.Now you might be wonderning: who's the genius who decided to put these two together in a movie?  But wait, there's actually method to this madness.  Since their was no Vin Diesel, the director knew he had only Paul Walker left.  And it's well known that Walker cannot carry a film (see "Timeline").  So what to do?  Of course!  Find an actor EVEN WORSE than Walker and cast them together!  All of the sudden Walker doesn't look so terrible, because everyone's focusing on this other chump.  And apparently it worked, because a lot of people enjoyed this film, and there's even a sequel.
2003-11-15	3.0	0	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I didnt actually enjoy this movie as best as the first Fast and the Furious. Only because Vin Diesel isnt in this one, it doesnt seem to have the right &quot;catch&quot; to the movie. Thats just my opinion though because I think that Vin Diesel is a great actor. The whole plot of this movie is still good.
2014-05-15	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Let's start with the basics. The DVD was sealed and brand new as described and have had no problems with it whatsoever. As for the movie itself...if you love cars, girls, actions, and cars, then you'll love this movie. Although Vin Diesel isn't in this one, Paul Walker doesn't disappoint and the additions of Tyrese Gibson and Ludacris complete a thrilling movie.
2013-02-25	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	if your into fast and the furious this is a must have it shows how everybody did after the first movie of the series i recommend this to a fan of the series
2013-08-20	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The story line to be honest is kind of repetitive but it is still exciting! I like fast cars and the fact that they are passionate about them.
2007-01-18	3.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious: 5/10: Okay so it's car porn. It's rather well done car porn. Stunningly brainless but rather fun in places 2 Fast 2 Furious gives us a candy colored version of street racing with a plot that is best not even discussed.After all you don't watch this for the plot. You watch it for the cars. A giant product placement for Mitsubishi among others the cars and characters are right out of a video game (the paint jobs match the personalities) and kudos to the filmmakers for keeping the CGI to a minimum. The movie made me want to trick out my old Dodge Dart.(Electric Blue paint job with matching neon on yeah baby).Director John Singletary moves the cars around like he has been directing Burt Reynolds's movies all his life. (This is not a criticism and the fact he avoids Cannonball Run style humor is another plus.) Singletary who usually films much more important movies, (what's next Scorsese's Jaws 5 or Spike Lee's Ella Enchanted 2 Ella in Da Hood? Actually the way some of Spike's recent films have gone this may not be a bad idea) keeps the pace tight and the actors attractive.However all is not peachy keen. For example I haven't seen African American hairstyles this bad since Cotton came to Harlem. The Tyrese character comes across as a complete idiot almost sinking the movie once or twice. (Now I know Tyrese can act I saw Baby Boy.) Another quick note I have driven cars with nitrous oxide and they give you a burst of acceleration not warp speed effects from Star Trek. (And lets face it the Mitishibishi cars are pretty but not fast. These cars are dragging down a strip after a minute and the speedometer finally moves from 90 to 120 my Dart has better acceleration after 60 sixty seconds.The movie, to its credit, acknowledges when the cars get whooped by some old American muscle. I know I promised not to discuss the plot but one thing. If you needed someone to drive a couple of million dollars from Miami to Key West (all of 2 hours on Interstate 95 and Route 1), would you A: hire and old couple in a RV B: Drive it yourself or C: Hire two ex-cons in the flashiest cars you have ever seen and who had to this point been incapable of rounding the block without causing an accident and attracting various state and local agencies. I guess that's why we are not criminal masterminds.
2009-04-10	3.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Two years after audiences made a surprise hit out of "The Fast and the Furious", Universal Pictures released the speed-injected sequel "2 Fast 2 Furious". Gone were most members of the original film's cast, except for Paul Walker who opted to return once again as Brian O'Connor, and joining him this time would be then-newcomer to the acting world Tyrese Gibson ("Four Brothers"), Eva Mendes ("Ghost Rider"), and Cole Hauser ("Pitch Black"), along with director John Singleton ("Shaft") filling up the director's chair in place of Rob Cohen."2 Fast 2 Furious" finds Brian O'Connor (Paul Walker), now an ex-cop, living a life in hiding, yet still trying to prove just how fast he is in the world of street racing. But when the FBI catches up with Brian, he is given one final chance to do what is right by using his skills behind the wheel to assist in bringing down an international drug lord (Cole Hauser), or face the next few years behind bars. To do this Brian must enlist the aid of a former buddy (Tyrese Gibson) who is just as addicted to the rush of high velocities as he is, and hope that their combined racing prowess will be enough to get the job done before time runs out.With the original film, "The Fast and the Furious" audiences were given a movie that no one really had high expectations for, and in the end it became a massive hit for the summer of 2001. For "2 Fast 2 Furious" expectations were notably higher going in due to the great success of the original, but only having Paul Walker return for the sequel didn't seem to spell good things for this installment's future, at least not in my book. As it turns out I was wrong in my estimation that the missing element of Vin Diesel and most of the other cast members from the original would effect box office take, because "2 Fast 2 Furious" easily drove past where its predecessor finally parked on the box office tally sheet.The original film was essentially a story about loyalty between friends that live their lives on opposing sides of the law (as it turns out); for the sequel writers Michael Brandt & Derek Haas ("Wanted") along with original writer Gary Scott Thompson tried to take that initial theme and expound upon it. The main thrust of this film rests upon the decisions Brian made over the course of "The Fast and the Furious", and how those decisions for better or worse have affected his life today. By taking this route, not only do the writers actually enrich the story for the first movie by adding some new layers after the fact to Brian's character, but also strengthening this film by linking it directly into the action of the original (something that many franchises forget to do, and at times causes a movie within a series to feel unrelated in a way that is detrimental to the franchise). I did enjoy how the story gave us insight into Brian's and Roman's (Tyrese Gibson) history, and made their relationship in this film a parallel to Brian and Dom in the original. It was also interesting to see a different side to Brian's character than we have before. In the first movie he was a cop, so he was bound by the law (to an extent); in this film, no such restriction is in place, and Brian is much more care-free and most likely being himself, thus making him a little more interesting as a character.As strengthened as the film was by its link to the original, it was also hurt by it because it forced the inevitable comparisons between the two films to come even more naturally. The script for this film did have some weaknesses that detracted from the end result, some of which were problems in the first movie, just not to the extent that they are here. Numerous times throughout the movie the dialogue began to grow tiresome, especially the pervasive uses of the words "Yo", "Bro", and "Check it", all of which seemed to find its way into almost every single moment of Paul Walker's screen time. I know that in the first movie he used these words, and that it kind of solidified his surfer image; however, when it begins to become noticeable to the point that it's annoying, something has gone wrong. Along with that problem there were also several moments within the story that felt slow, as if the writers weren't really sure how to propel the story forward in an interesting way. It was at these times that the movie seemed to be meandering about aimlessly just waiting for the next action/racing sequence to begin so that the story could find its mojo once more. It was due to these problems, and a few other minor ones along the way, that caused "2 Fast 2 Furious" to stumble along in places, and in the end fall short of the standard set by the first film.A staple of this series is of course the racing sequences, and there are a plethora of such scenes in this installment, all of which are fun to watch no doubt about that. Yet, the problem with a franchise such as this, or any action series for that matter, is that it becomes harder in the sequels to make the action (in this case racing) seem fresh and original. No matter how hard you try the racing is going to resemble that which came before it, unless you explore a new style of racing or just go completely unrealistic with the scenes (which appeared to happen in a few instances in this film). With this problem standing in his way director John Singleton did manage to at least make the racing interesting by including more stunts into the sequences than had been done before, some of which were a little harder to believe than others. It was this decision that helped keep the racing from feeling stale, yet also resulted in a more gimmicky feeling than the previous film's races had. Despite all that, director John Singleton did a very good job in trying to differentiate his movie from the original, while at the same time keeping a similar feel and tone. Not an easy task, but one that he managed to succeed in doing.As I stated earlier Paul Walker was the only primary cast member to return for this installment, and I had praised him previously for his work in the original film. However, for this movie he seemed unfocused and uninterested through several of his scenes, almost as if he were simply "phoning in" his performance. I'm not saying that Paul is the greatest actor of his generation, far from it actually, but his apparent aloofness to the material, and at times wooden portrayal, was very distracting. Despite the problems that Paul had in his role, there were several moments within the film where he actually came out of his funk, and delivered some very key scenes; namely those revolving around his past mistakes and how they have effected his decisions and choices ever since.Joining Paul Walker we have actor Tyrese Gibson, who has become quite a decent actor in his own right since this film. Now, his performance in this movie is troubled like Paul Walker's, but for different reasons. Unlike Paul, Tyrese clearly enjoys his role, and seems to really be trying to invest himself in the performance; however, his talent had not yet been honed enough to let him fully deliver in all his scenes. This is best illustrated by what is easily one of the worst line readings within this film, and reminds me of Hayden Christensen's horribly flat utterance of the words "Don't underestimate my power!" in "Star Wars - Episode III: Revenge of the Sith", which is, "I have a problem with authority." Wow, could a line be delivered any flatter and with any less conviction, obviously it could be if Hayden had delivered it, but still that was atrocious and by all accounts should have resulted in another take to try to get it right (take note director John Singleton).Alongside the two leads is actress Eva Mendes as an undercover FBI agent working inside the drug cartel. Eva was very good in this role, and had the good fortune of actually receiving a female character that was given more to do in this film than Michelle Rodriguez or Jordana Brewster was in the first one. Cole Hauser as the drug lord gave a decent performance, and seemed to do the best he could with what he was given to work with. The problem with his character was that he wasn't really a guy that was all that interesting, and truth be told he seemed more like a stock villain from any other action film. I know that the main focus for this series will always be the cars, but a little effort could have been put into making this villain a little more of a threat and much more developed as a character. Truthfully, even though we rooted for him, Vin Diesel's character Dom was in essence a bad guy in the original movie, but it was the way his character was developed to be a more complicated guy than what you merely see on the surface that made him so interesting. That is what was sorely lacking in this movie's villain; I'm not saying you need a villain that you can root for, but at least give me one that isn't so one-dimensional.All that being said, for me "2 Fast 2 Furious" was a generally fun ride with plenty of high-energy racing, a decent story, and average acting for the most part (with a few bright spots here and there); however, the movie never did quite capture what made the first one such a success, so it does fall somewhat short in the end."2 Fast 2 Furious" is rated PG-13 for violence and language.
2003-06-28	3.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Now, a lot of my friends told me that this movie had no plot.  I beg to differ.  It DOES HAVE A PLOT - a lousy one.  A recycled plot that I believe I saw once in a made for TV movie.  This movie is like the legendary Tin Man - all metal and chrome - but no heart.  The only times I really liked this movie were the races (which thankfully there are more in this one than in THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS), the beautiful autos, and that one scene with the rat (I tried that on Josh when I got home).  As always Paul Walker can't act.  If I didn't know any better, I'd swear they had to write his lines on his steering wheel most of the time.  Tyrese had the almost impossible challenge of replacing bald strong-man (and the reason the first movie had the word FURIOUS in the title) Vin Diesel.  He failed miserably.  I believe he and Walker went to the same acting school for "pretty but stupid actors" that Ashton Kutcher and Freddy Prinze Jr. nearly flunked out of.  The only really good performance in the entire movie was that of the Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution (I'm sorry but the Spyder ... too.  It was overacting.)  The fight scene between Brian and Rome made me feel like I was watching two ten year olds fighting.  Fortunately for the filmmakers and the actors, another installment is probably in the works because they know just as well as we do that the only real reason anyone comes out to see this movie is for the spectacular cars.  So as long as they keep the screen looking more like an Auto Show than a movie, they can keep putting butts in seats.  If you like fast cars and scantily-clad women, and you're willing to endure Paul Walker's lack-of-talent without vommitting up your greasy popcorn, then by all means please enjoy.
2009-11-13	3.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I'm not implying that the first movie was a masterpiece, but I do think that the first part was better. Still, its a good sequel and follows the storyline well, without any continuity errors.
2013-12-08	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Because the movie is really good. I liked the way the movie starts and how Luda Chris is introduced. I also like the way Roman is introduced and the fight they had and how Roman got over it. Very good movie
2012-12-12	5.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love the series of the Fast and the Furious! This one was great, especially since I used to live in Miami and it's reassuring that they filmed there vs. on a hollywood lot
2003-08-17	3.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 fast 2 furious is okay kind of a movie if you like fast cars, sexy woman and lots of action.  I thought it was good like all the racing scenes, but I think it needed a plot to the story then it would have been better.
2003-06-14	4.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	First of all, before I get on with the movie itself, let me point out my only rant going to see this movie. I really liked the first &#65533;Fast and the Furious&#65533; (besides the soundtrack, but I&#65533;ll get touch on that aspect in a minute). It had enough there to make a sequel. How it ended was how Vin Diesel got away in Mexico (if you had watched the closing credits, you would see a scene where Vin Diesel driving along the Mexican border.) My first thoughts were the producers would start from there. When I heard about them making a sequel, I figured they were going to do it that way. When I heard Diesel wasn&#65533;t going to be in it, I ranted. Even though I don&#65533;t care for Vin Diesel all that much, a good portion of the movie&#65533;s greatness came from Vin Diesel and Paul Walker&#65533;s performance. It was like a team effort, and not having that caused this new sequel to fail on some aspects of its original basis. With that said, let me tell you my thoughts of &#65533;2 Fast 2 Furious&#65533;After watching it, I wouldn&#65533;t classify it as a &#65533;sequel&#65533;, but more of a &#65533;spin-off&#65533;. Even though two characters from the first film came back (one is Walker and the other is a minor supporting character who doesn&#65533;t quite make enough impact on the first film but make a HUGE impact in this film), this movie doesn&#65533;t carry the same plot of the first film. It carries the same platform and outline, but the 2 films are very much different. I loved every scene regarding car chases. Car chases in movies never get old. It really had that &#65533;Smokey and the Bandit&#65533; vive in it. There&#65533;s one scene where Tyrese says, &#65533;Doing that &#65533;Dukes and Hazard&#65533; thing again?&#65533; That&#65533;s one thing this movie has over the first one, maybe even making it better, is the &#65533;old school car chase movies&#65533; vive to it. Tyrese and Walker doesn&#65533;t&#65533; have that same magic Diesel and Walker had, but it&#65533;s entertaining enough. While it really doesn&#65533;t focus on the aspect of trust or friendship, it&#65533;s really more of a buddy-buddy system with these two. Tyrese played both the tough bad [guy] and the token black guy with greatness. The only thing that bothers me (and it annoyed the hell out of me in the first film) is the tecno-rap music. I really don&#65533;t think it&#65533;s necessary on any means. What ever the case may be, this film is one bad ass &#65533;popcorn&#65533; joy ride with every car chase stunt that will please red-necks and street racers a like. I&#65533;m not much into cars, but what makes this film sell isn&#65533;t the big name rappers or the tight ... females but really the fast pace cars. I would never show up to one of those races but it is neat to watch on the screen!
2004-06-13	2.0	5	6	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The original FAST AND THE FURIOUS was brainless but reasonably entertaining, with a charismatic performance by Vin Diesel, a fairly interesting plot, and some very well-done action scenes. This inevitable sequel, starring Paul Walker (who played second fiddle to Diesel's character in the original) and Tyrese (as Diesel's &quot;replacement&quot;), hardly approaches the highs of the first film at all until the last 20 minutes or so, when 2 FAST 2 FURIOUS truly comes alive with a fun-to-watch car chase scene, some ingenuity, and some momentum. Until then, it's pretty mediocre, with a cookie-cutter plot, some wince-inducing dialogue (which tries way too hard to be &quot;cool&quot;), and bland car racing scenes. Thanks to Tyrese, who brings considerable energy and charisma to a badly underwritten but important role, it's still fairly watchable overall, but at least with THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS I wasn't annoyed with the dialogue and bored with the plot. Action fans can easily skip this one.
2003-10-01	1.0	0	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	One day, some brainwashed, MTV moron came up with the idea to mix rap and street racing and put it in a movie. He gave us The Fast and The Furious. Boy, that movie was terrible. Now, he decides to make a sequel(Why?) and puts more rap in it, but this time, Ludacris shows up. I hope this Fast and The Furious trend dies off along with that dumb, &quot;gangsta&quot; rap trend.
2013-04-13	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie was great, probably just as good as the first movie! They are also such great actors!  I am watching the whole series.
2014-05-26	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I freely admit I wasn't a fan of the Fast & The Furious but with this entry into what has become a powerhouse of a series - you began to see what Brian was capable of and more importantly what kind of kickass storytelling was possible. Admittedly Dom/Vin isn't in this one but it by no means diminishes the power of Tyrese stepping up to the plate as Roman Pearce. Throw in Cole Hauser and Eva Mendez - you have a solid movie experience on your hands that showcases just what the future has in store.
2013-07-05	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Good story line. You are wrapped in the adventure that you forget your own reality during the length of the movie. That fun entertainment.You also become fond of the characters. Best part-Great car scenes.
2012-01-07	4.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Great product, got just what I wanted. The cover was in good condition and there were no scratches on the actual cd.
2006-03-10	5.0	3	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I normally prefer romantic / comedies but this movie is definitely one of my favourite movies ever.  This movie has a bit of everything in it.  My entire family loves it.
2013-08-08	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	very happy with the condition of the discs and the arrival time. everything is as stated and I would buy from this person again.
2005-02-27	3.0	2	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This is the sequel of the 2001 movie The fast and the furious, personally i think that the first movie is a lot better than the second one...but i have some valid point of view about TO FAST TO FURIOUS...or 2 Fast 2 furious...whatheverGOOD POINT:1) Good action sequence...the only one that i enjoy is the first one...I love the sound of the car when they push the NITRO2) The girls....very hot...i love every type of girls but i prefer the asian3)The cars.....but not too much....im going to say why in the BAD POINT...BAD POINT:1) This is a car movie....then...WHY there's only one good race in the entire movie ???2) Bad acting...the only one that I think that act well is James remar and the one that act like the bad guy, i dont remember the name..3)BAD plot....the first movie has a lot better plot4) there's a lot of imports hot car around the world..so why they choose only  2 mitsubishi cars like the principal one's....i dont have anything agains mitsubishi...but they could use other brands or models...maybe an EVO VII with a Impreza WRX STI....or a SUPRA with a ECLIPSE...i dont know...i think that mitsubishi paid a lot of money to the director...that's all......this is a good movie...i can see one or two times without problems but after that..i dont want to see the movie again...
2003-04-18	5.0	3	21	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Its da best ever, for da first one i went to da movies to watch it like 5 times then brought it its alsome , and da second 1 is spose to be even better with ludacris and hes not a cop no more :D , i would recommend it to anyone who loves der car and anyone who wants a good action movie.
2013-05-26	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This sequel to "The Fast And The Furious" is better even without Vin Diesel in it. Paul Walker is back and better as ex-cop Brian O' Conner, who is now in a street racing gang. He is then arrested and is told about a druglord named Carter Verone, played with excellence by Cole Hauser. He takes the job, but, with help of his own, a old childhood friend Roman Pearce, played with nice commitment by Tyrese Gibson. I don't want to tell anymore because that will be giving away too much information. John Singleton, the director, is brilliant at directing this movie and this will surely be one of my favorites of his for all time. David Arnold's score is brilliant as much as the movie is.
2003-07-27	5.0	2	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious is the best movie ever.Better then the first one.There were more practical cars in the first one and in the second is more exotic cars.Brian O'conner and his Nissan Skyline rev up and race, by suprise he gets caught this time by the cops and his real name is revealed{O'conner}.Bilkins from the first movie is in miami with a deal for Brian.He puts a drug smuggler Carter verone and his dirty money together if not he would be arrested for the laws he broke in L.A. if he did his record would be cleared.The guy they gave him to be his partner{there suppose to be two street racers} has the intellagence of a wet mop, so they let him choose his own guy Roman Pierce{Tyrese}.Together with hard work,dangerous stunts,the help of Tej{Ludacris},miami street racers, and Monica Flementes{an undercover cop living with Carter} they put Carter and his money toghether.
2003-04-19	3.0	4	7	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	John Singleton steps in for directing duties after Rob Cohen's free-wheeling FAST AND THE FURIOUS made a sizeable dent in the summer box-office back in 2000 despite luke-warm reviews. But the question remains: Will this be yet another notch in the long string of thoughtless, cash-in sequels? Probably, since the notable lack of Cohen and Vin Diesel this time around. Sure, it'll clean up in cinemas, and who cares if whats-his-name isn't in it as long as it's got enough hot chicks, cool car chases and an ear-splitting soundtrack right? Yes, lower your expectations and it's sure to be a blast.
2014-02-21	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Love the Franchise too bad that Paul walker had to go out like but he will always be in hearts Forever Thank you Paul and Roger RIP!!!
2013-07-24	2.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Bad acting, or script, or both.  Eva Mendez has done better.  And to top it all, no Vin Diesel.  Need I say more?
2014-04-10	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	It's a great movie. I would recommend it. I must have for me. Love the cast and was so sorry to hear about the death of Paul Walker.
2013-12-21	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Excellent sequel to the original, always love Paul Walker's acting and his crystal blue eyes, Tyrese is awesome fast talking with a tude and so funny-he and Paul had great chemistry! Hate that it took me so long to catch up but I love it just the same. This Fast Pace Drama is just what a weekend movie watch needs! R.I.P Paul Will Always Love & Admire Your Generosity, Spirit & Acting Talents!
2005-07-20	5.0	2	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Crazyness! But still that spyder in real life could not out run those cars and hang with the EVO! Come on, a little fake but nice film , I liked it alot . Not as much as the first but it was nice. Check it out .
2013-12-11	3.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Thought it was a good buddy movie with lots of action.  Have always liked Paul Walker.  He will surely be missed.
2006-08-25	1.0	0	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Saw the previews of the first movie, but I wasn't expecting too much from that. I tried to finish both the first and the second, but that didn't work out too well...I felt these films didn't deserved to be watched all the way to the end. I don't know how some of y'all were able to sit through this poor excuse of a movie, and that includes the first. All I really have to say is you if you like this movie or maybe a better version of it...Y'all should really consider watching Cops and those insane police chases shown on TV. After all this is just another episode of Cops with guest actors in it.
2004-05-24	3.0	0	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I liked this movie. I didn't like the first, so i thought this one was better. I recommend it to anyone who loved the first one.MPAA: PG-13Running Time: 108 minutesYear released: 2003
2004-10-25	5.0	7	9	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	First, let me say that I decided not to watch this movie when it came out summer 2003. I was so turned off from the first one (Fast & the Furious) that I though the sequel will be a waste of time & money (most sequels tend to flop nowadays). The cars in the first movie were ok, but there was no plot...basically none...nada!! Not to mention Ja Rule only showed up in the movie to get dissed? lolol...serves him right. Fast & Furious was lame overall, but Vin Diesel stole the show (hands down). So, I'm disappointed that he wasn't in this sequel though.So I rented & watched the DVD 1yr later expecting to see another dumb sequel.I was wrong...This movie finally has a decent plot that gelled all parts of the movie together into one exciting rollercoaster ride.The cars, were much better, waaaaay faster, not to mention the girls and the setting (how can u beat Miami?). The first race totally blew me away. Incredible Car Stunts!! Not to mention the cars. Skyline? Spider? Evo VII? The 2 Hemi monsters? American Muscle?...What more cars could u ask for Man? They even rolled out the whole pack of cars near the end. The police aren't that stupid. It's just flat-out fast paced action from the word "GO!" The driving maneuvres during all chases were well done.Paul Walker's a pretty cool actor...I respect the man. Tyrese was just too funny. Eva Mendes is so pretty, that I've stopped dreaming of J-Lo. Ludacris & Devon Aoki look so cute together. Not to mention the villian (Cole Hauser), he was stoned cold. All the actors were tight.How can I forget the soundtrack? All the tracks are flat-out club bangers that fit the scenes like a glove. That track during the buildup to the 1st race (when the skyline was driving in) was my favorite. You'll be feeling the beats for real.To me this is one of the hypest movies I've seen that really lived up to it's name...definitely one of the best urban movies I've ever seen in a while now. You won't get tired of this movie, and you'll want to watch it over and over again. This movie is a keeper for all car-lovers.Should they do "Fast & Furious 3" with Vin Diesel back in with Paul Walker, Tyrese in it, true justice will be surely be served.This movie rocks! Why? It's all about the cars baby!
2006-01-30	1.0	2	7	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	One hell of a waste of money! if you are expecting alot of the same charectors from the first movie like I was, you are in for a hell of a disappointment! the only reason why I think the first one was bad ass is cause Vin Diesel was in it, and yeah it was totally bad ass! I'll tell you one thing that this damn thing has in common with the first movie is that the only real cars were destroyed, in this movie you get two real cars this time, a 1969 Camaro SS, and a 1970 Dodge Challenger r/t and they both get destroyed! who in their right mind would destroy those sexy cars! God all mighty! Don't waste your money on this movie, I wouldn't take this disappointment if it was given to me! if you are wanting to buy a kick ass movie, buy Frost bite! you won't be disappointed!
2004-10-12	2.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The original was a great movie, and really helped advocate the growing trend of import tuning & racing. The "2 Fast 2 Furious" sequel turned out to be a bogus attempt to take the original a step further. The thing that made the original so cool was that it was all about the cars and the racing scene (particularly LA/So. Cal). 2 Fast 2 Furious simply feels like another cop movie with chase scenes and a poor story.I've never seen a sequel bomb as badly as this one. It's too bad they didn't try harder to make this one a hit too. No wonder Vin Diesel didn't appear in this one: Apparently he can see a bad script a quarter-mile away.I'm glad I only rented this movie. If I would have paid full price to own it I would be forced to sell it to some poor unsuspecting fool. I have one more thing to say about this movie, and it is a possible spoiler so if you haven't watched it skip to the next review.The first scene was the worst of the whole movie, so it really failed to set the mood for the rest of the flick. Most of the first race was done by low-budget computer graphics, and it is painfully obvious. The steam from the Nissan Skyline's hood was just lame, BTW.Do yourself a favor, buy a different movie.
2003-08-18	3.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious was a movie like any other about cars, drugs, and more cars (and of course girls). However, Paul Walker's acting could have been a litte bit more convincing. It's a little more than obvious that his ebonics just did not work for his character. Next time, Paul, choose a part where you don't have to fake your entire dialogue.
2006-06-19	5.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	If you liked the first one, you have to like this one. It's good. It made me smile. It's funny but at the same time serious and sexy. The first one and the second fast and furious are the bomb.
2013-12-21	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I didn't think it would be this good since the original crew from the first movie isn't there but it's better. And I think it's due to the camaraderie and special bond between Paul Walker and Tyrese. There's plenty of action, jokes, semi- dramatic scenes but overall entertaining. I actually like it better then the first movie.When Paul was with Van Diesel it was more drama and action. In this movie it's action, comedy and drama all intermingled. It's the only film of the Fast and Furious series that I've seen ( seen only Fast and Furious 1,2 and 6) that I  am wiling to watch twice or thrice.I truly enjoyed it.
2013-12-11	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	it is good but not as good as the first one. Has a lot of fast car action and speeding
2003-11-06	3.0	2	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I think that 2Fast2Furious didn't spend to much time on the moive. The rush everything to make sure when it was time to release the movie it would be done so the views could go out and see it. There where only 2 races in the whole movie and not to many cars to look at. To me The Fast and Furious kills this movie by far.
2003-05-24	5.0	1	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	wass up!! race addicts, thank god the much awaited movie TF&TF2 will be released on june 6 nationwide. i gave this movie a 5 star coz it really rocks and this is my favorite movie ever its like an energy booster to my body that keeps my whole system alive.GODSPEED!!
2014-03-15	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	the product was in good condition no interruptions encountered while we were watching the movie. it may looked used but it worked perfectly.
2014-01-08	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Great movie, grew up with Fast and Furious. Very convenient to rent online. Will give it another try. Amazon rocks!
2013-04-28	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Excellent and I would recommend for fans to go ahead and buy. You will not be sorry.Just the right amount of action.
2003-09-24	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Paul Walker, is again awesome in this film. However, I do have to say that I greatly missed Dom (V Diesel)...If you havent seen the first one, get them both and enjoy...The cars are awesome, the guys are hot, and the girls are beautiful. The one thing I did like better about this film is more American Muscle cars.
2005-11-11	5.0	4	7	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	ARE YOU CRAZY?????????This movie is great. I love boy racers and I wish I was old enough to drive so I could be one too! Oops, I'm a girl! OK, I could be a girl racer! But, boy racers or girl racers, this movie is da bomb! It's in a class of its own. My Dad loves car and motorbike racing. He saw the first five minutes and switched it off, saying it was stupid. Big mistake. Luckily, I recorded it so he can still watch it and see how wrong he was about it having no story! Of course it has a story, it just needs a bit more time than five minutes to really get into full swing! I loved the fast cars, and I can hardly wait to see the first one (hope it's just as good)!Just remember not to take part in Street Races on busy roads, and try to be as safe as possible. For, not only could you get caught, or get your car impounded, but you could also kill or injure yourself, or someone else, or wreck your car.But as long as you don't take it TOO seriously it's a great film. And I'm not saying don't street race. I'll bet it'd be great fun and I can hardly wait to do it myself! I'm just saying, be careful, be safe, and don't do it if you're drunk or stoned.But hey, enough of that! Let's now focus on the GOOD points.OK, so I suppose you're wondering what I'm talking about. Well, I'll tell you. 2 Fast 2 Furious is about some guys who take part in a street race. They get caught and they are promised clean records IF they help the police with another crime. Well, the criminals say that if they don't help them, they'll make up so many stories about them breaking the law they'll go to Jail. But if they do help them, they'll die. Well, they try to look like they're helping them when they're actually helping the police. Much mirth ensues.If you haven't already seen it, get down to the nearest video ezy and get one today! Satisfaction guaranteed!You'll love it if you liked The World's Fastest Indian, Herbie: Fully loaded (the old OR the new version), The Fast And The Furious (Duh! It's the first in the series!), or any other car/motorbike racing film.So what're you waiting for? HIRE ONE TODAY!
2006-02-27	4.0	0	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Es una de las pocas secuelas que me gusta, por lo general las segundas partes no lo son. Sobre todo la introduccion que hace el DVD sobre como sigue la historia despues de que Vin Diesel escapa. Excelente!!
2007-12-29	5.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I think there is enough eye-candy to keep you entertained for 2 hours.The picture jump of the screen as soon as you start the movie.I think what this lacks in story it sure makes up for it with bright and beautiful color and excellent sound that test your speakers though out the film. I have to say John Singleton made this film his own giving us a great visual set piece in Miami. If only the "Miami Vice" film had what this  movie has going for it in the visual department it might be easy to watch.
2010-07-25	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Miami Vice meets Vin Diesel(not in this movie) in the second movie of the Fast&Furious series. One caucasian and one African-American  team up to take down a high-class criminal with the help of Ludacris and Eva Mendes along with several tricked out cars and classic American muscle as well. If you like cop movies and/or car chase movies, this is a must-have!
2008-03-13	3.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Fans of the first film, THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS, may have felt that what it offered was nothing more than a career boost to co-star Vin Diesel. The fact is that it was a fun filled roller coaster ride that film goers flocked to. Hollywood, never one to not notice something like this, did what had to be done. They made this sequel.Now sequels are never looked upon very well by most critics. It is the rare occasion when they find any praise whatsoever. And as they go, this movie isn't quite as good as the original. But it still retains the fun and entertainment level of the first, sacrificing only a fraction of the serious undertones seen there.Having aided a felon escape at the end of the first film, officer Brain O'Connor (Paul Walker) is now on the run. Taking his tricked out car and heading down the road, he makes his way across the USA towards Miami. Using his driving ability, he picks up cash along the way as well as when he hits the south Florida streets. A bust after an illegal street race (using state of the art technology that shuts down a cars electric system), Brian is offered a chance to avoid jail time AND have his record wiped clean.All he has to do is go undercover again and find out how drug runner Carter Verone (Cole Hauser) is laundering the money he makes. With an agent already in deep cover, they assign a newbie to Brian. Demonstrating how inept he is, Brian insists on recruiting his own backup.Change of location to Barstow where an old friend of Brian's is racing. Roman Pearce (Tyrese) holds a grudge against Brian for not helping him after Brian became a police man. But being offered the chance to have his record cleared and removed from house arrest, he jumps at the opportunity.The pair has a chance to prove themselves right away as Verone sets up a contest for drivers to return with a package. The high speed race is on and of course, the dynamic duo wins. Now working for Verone, they are given a job to transport a package (the money) for him. Problems involving Verone's trust of his close personal assistant who also happens to be the deep undercover agent (Eva Mendes) results in a set up for Brian and Roman. Combine that with a stereotypical overzealous FBI agent (James Remar) and you have a predictable yet fun movie.The charm of this movie is not the in depth look at social problems facing today's youth gone wild that results in their fascination in hot looking cars and illegal street races. Leave that for another film, perhaps a documentary. No, the charm of this film lies in two things. The actors and the cars.Walker and Tyrese fit well together, making their friendship believable. The ease with which they slide into their characters is fast and fun and filled with plenty of humor as well. The sign of a good actor is one who makes it appear as if he is not acting. And both of them do that well here.The cars? What can I say? These are some of the most ticked out vehicles on the planet. Filled with everything from televisions to computer assists to neon and chrome, each one is almost a character in itself. They look wicked and hot and lethal all at once.A few side stories involving friends and more street races fill out the basic plot of the movie. But everything continues to focus on the cars and the leads. And in the end that's all that matters. This is not a heavy duty drama. This is a popcorn flick, pure and simple. And as far as that goes, it fills bucket after bucket.
2014-03-04	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This is the movie that truly hooked me onto the series. It is in the second movie that I developed my attachment to the characters. Their personalities become more distinct and the viewer cares about each more. I felt that Vin Diesel and Paul Walker started to really become the Fast and Furious icons in this movie. These are the best car lover movies out there because they do it right with an in depth plot, family ties, beautiful scenery, love, and the best cars.
2013-05-31	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Thanks for the movie that includes Eva Mendes and has the Miami nightlife and cars, cars, cars, for those of us who like that kind of Fun.  This movie is in excellent condition and came with speedy delivery.  I will use this seller over and over.
2003-09-25	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I really wanted to see this movie until it said it got rated in my local paper 2 stars. 2 STARS! I was then maybe thinking about seeing it and then decided to go for the heck of it. It was awesome! The story plot was pretty good, and there was a lot of action. Typically what every 13-18 year old wants to see. Recomended to action lovers and all teens
2004-08-31	2.0	0	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Come back Vin Diesel. Diesel turned down this film because he wanted more money, bad mistake. "2 Fast 2 Furious" made almost as much money as the first one in the box-office. This film was entertaining, the girls were hot, but I left the theater, wanting more.
2004-01-21	2.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	There was a lot more street racing in this, but it sucked. Suki? Who thought of that genius character. She seemed so bad at acting. Maybe it was because her dialogue sucked! This whole movie is bland though. When you hate the characters, you hate the movie. I hated the characters, and you will too.
2011-12-17	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious (Widescreen Edition)I now have the whole set because i was able to find what i need right here on Amazon.comUnlike other places i have been!
2003-11-08	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This film was awesome, one defo for the thrill seekers.  Just sit back and enjoy the thrill of the race!  Excellent visuals and special effects and I ain't just talking about those fast cars either, I mean the hot fast men too.  Paul Walker is to die for a total babe-magnet - sex on a stick!! mmmmmmmmmmmm! He is a very talented actor and oozes charisma and charm.  He keeps your eyes glued to the screen and your bott firmly on yer seat. Tyrese's character Roman, is a lovable rogue whose boyish charm and sexy smile leave you wanting more. It also had an element of playground humour between Brian (Paul) and Roman (Tyrese), which was comical at times, this also made it fun to watch.  A definite MUST SEE!!!!!!!!
2003-06-06	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I was the second person in line at the box office , there were 20 people behind me to see this movie. I thought that if it was anything like the first one it had to be good. But it wasn't like the first one, It was better. It was one of those movies that you couldn't leave to get popcorn, use the bathroom, ect. My opinon is that Tyrese made the film better than Vin Diesal, but it has to have Paul in it. I am looking forward to hopefully see another repeat of 2F&2F.
2003-10-02	4.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Fast paced with lots of action.  Way better than the first one.  Tyrese and Paul Walker have great chemistry together.  If you liked a movie like Cradle To The Grave you are going to love this.*Wanted to give it 3 and a half stars not four.
2003-06-10	4.0	13	16	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Fueled by the libidinous gas of Tyrese and Paul Walker, John Singleton's sequel to "The Fast and the Furious," "2 Fast 2 Furious" proves that Fast Cars, Fast Guys and Fast Women can still equal a pretty good movie. We're not talking "The Hours" or "Talk to Her" here, but I can think of several more expensive to make and/or bigger star vehicles that don't have this movie's charisma and charm."2F2F" is shot in Caribbean, super bright primary colors and the Car race and chase scenes are as outstanding as those in "Ronin" and that is saying a lot. And even though some of the line readings are dull and non-ironic, Tyrese definitely emerges as a genuine talent.If there are any Drive-ins left in the world (and I hope there are)...this is the perfect drive-in movie: take a date, buys some dogs, popcorn, good-and-plenty and a vat of Soda and enjoy.
2003-10-15	2.0	0	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Vin Diesel was right to stay out of this one. It flopped big time when I watched it in the theaters. I was so bored. yeah, ok, cars speeding there, he jumps a gap in the bridge, ok. lame action. not even close as better to the first one. the first one had style and ok Ludacris is in this one but who cares about him, hes not a good actor. Ja Rule outacted him in the first one, Ja Rule was way much better then him
2003-12-29	2.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	When the original The Fast and the Furious opened in theaters back in 2001, it looked to be just another action flick to keep teenagers happy at the movies until the next big hit entered the multiplexes. But The Fast and the Furious became a much bigger then anybody expected, especially its distributor, Universal Pictures. The original film, which cost only $38 million for the studio, ended its run in theaters with over $110 million. The surprise hit of the summer became an even bigger surprise on DVD. The film became one of the largest selling DVDs in the year it was released. So with these results in hand, it was a no brainer for Universal to make a follow up. Unfortunately things didn't go the way Universal would have liked it. Rising-star Vin Diesel, who got his break out role in the original The Fast and the Furious, wanted a much bigger paycheck then Universal was willing to pay. So in the end, he ended up dropping out of the project. After Diesel dropped out, Rob Cohen, director of The Fast and the Furious, also dropped out of the sequel. But since Universal still had Paul Walker, the other star of the original, they decided to go on with the sequel without them. Will the risk pay off for Universal or will this high-octane thrill ride run out of gas?The story goes that street racing is a big thing in the city of Miami. Watching tricked out cars race up and down the street and seeing who crashes and who crosses the finish line is a huge thrill with the people of Southern Florida. One of the big stars of the street racing scene is Brian O'Conner, who last time we saw him was racing out in Los Angles with Vin Diesel as an undercover cop. But since he let the criminal go, he was forced to leave the police department. When he is caught by the police, he is recruited by them to track down a cruel Miami import/export dealer. When O'Conner doesn't like the partner the police team him up with, he recruits an old friend, Roman Pearce, to help him track down the dealer so they can get their records cleaned. The story for 2 Fast 2 Furious is one of the most ridiculous ones pulled out of a movie. It is certainly as worse or even more horrible then the one for the original film. Some elements are ridiculous crafted into the film and some of the chases scenes are set up in a way that are too predictable. The absence of director Rob Cohen is clearly obvious with the sequel. Though the original wasn't a movie masterpiece, Cohen had at least some consistency. This film lacks that very dearly.The characters of 2 Fast 2 Furious are, for the most part, just stereotypes. The rest that are not, don't do a great job acting through this tired script. Paul Walker, who didn't receive too many fabulous comments about his acting, or lack there of, in the original film, doesn't do much better in the follow up but one can see improvement. The only one in the cast that shows some sign of rising acting talent is Tyrese Gibson, who plays O'Conner's ex-con buddy, Roman Pearce. Tyrese brings a lot of well needed humor is this film that is, for the most part, fairly dry. Most of the rest of the cast aren't really worth mentioning. Devon Aoki who plays Suki in the film isn't given much outside of the look badass and hot at the same time argument. She has no important lines and really doesn't do much with her role in the first place. She is basically there just for show. Same goes for Eva Mendes, though her character obviously places a more important role. But on a technical note, her character really doesn't do too much. The rest of the cast, like it was said before, isn't worth mentioning.Overall, 2 Fast 2 Furious is not much of an improvement from the original but did we really expect it to be? Without the badass charm of Vin Diesel and the consistency of Rob Cohen at the helm, the project suffers greatly. The story is tired, dry and too predictable as the film progresses. For what was accomplished in the film, if anything at all, the film could have been wrapped up much quicker then the two hours it ran in. Nothing really stands out to take of big note within the film outside of the rising acting power of Tyrese Gibson. The film focuses too much on the scantily clad babes and the adrenaline powered cars to hear how ridiculous the script actually sounds. When they finish talking their "street lingo", the lines they pop out sound cheesy and dry. But one does have to admit that with all the problems the film suffers from, the racing scenes are very well done. The special effects, as impressive as they are, still look pretty fake, which is pretty obvious. The charm of the original, if that was possible for some, was the realistic racing scenes. Most of those in the sequel are done on computer with only the actors placed in motionless cars against a blue screen in order to add the CGI later on. This was possibly the biggest disappointment of the film with nothing else expected from the sequel. The month of June looks bad enough with four horrible duds opening up next weekend but with a start like 2 Fast 2 Furious, there is only one thing to say: Disney and Pixar should make a real killing with Finding Nemo this month.
2003-08-23	3.0	2	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious is an extremly exciting movie. It has all the special effects and car races any movie goer could ask for. Unfortuantly the bad acting and weak plot hurts the movie drastically. The movie is about Paul Walker (after being dismissed from his police job) living in Florida and getting money off illegal street racing. When he is finally caught by the Miami Police for street racing, he makes a deal with them that if he will bring down a drug lord he will be able to walk freely and have a cleared resame. He recruits Tyrese his former friend and they hit the streets of Miami to take down the drug dealer.The plot of the movie is extremely boring. Anyone who came to the movie doesn't really want to see a plot, they just wanna see a few people race cars, hot women and for Paul Walker to provide decent acting. Unfortuantley they only ge 2 out of 3. Walkers acting continues to hurt the franchise and he's even worst in 2 fast 2 furious. He not even believeable with half the things he says. Young actor Tyrese is pretty good however and saves the acting. He provides numerous comedic lines and keeps the flow of the movie going. Rapper Ludacris also has role in the movie as the money collector and money disher outer when the races begin and end (if that makes sense.) The visuals in the movie are quite spectacular. The race scenes are excellently done making you feel like your really in the drivers seat stepping on the gas.All in all the movie is okay but is only worth a rent when it comes out (I based the review on it in theatres) on video/dvd. The lack of a true lead actor hurts the movie (because lets face it Paul Walker isn't anywhere near good) and the weak plot doesnt help. Vin Deasil (or however you spell his name) needs to come back and help the look of a 3rd installment of The Fast and The Furious (if there is one.) Michelle Rodriguez would be nice too. Personally I recommend it.
2013-05-12	3.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious I feel is a bit of a step down from the first movie, Fast and the Furious, which is saying something.  Fast and the Furious was hardly a masterpiece, but it was a fun popcorn film that knew what it was, and what its target audience was.  This film still has those fun popcorn elements, but without the star power.  2 Fast 2 Furious is one of the highest rated entries in the Fast franchise.  I personally do not see why.  Out of all the Fast films this movie is probably one of my least favorites along with Tokyo Drift.The characters this time around were quite non-engaging.  The first film at least had Vin Diesel, who I am a fan of.  You also had Michelle Rodriguez, despite not having a big role.  Here Vin Diesel and Michelle are replaced with Tyrese Gibson as Roman Pierce, who I did not care for.  Gibson came of as overly obnoxious and quite annoying.  I know it is supposed to be part of his character, but I still found him annoying and not charming at all.  You also have Chris Bridges playing a character named Tej, who I did not care for much either.  Eva Mendes' character is also quite boring.  She really does not do much, and is mostly there as a token love interest for Brian.Paul Walker returns as Brian O'Connor.  Like the first film, I think he is alright, but he cannot really carry a film by himself.  In the first film you have Vin Diesel as a secondary lead.  Plus the supporting characters were more fun.  Here all the characters minus Paul Walker were boring and irritating at times.The villain I will say, of all the villains in the Fast films, he is the most memorable, though that is not saying much.  The Fast films have never had interesting villains, this one included.  The villains just seem like an afterthought.  They seem like just an excuse for cool car chases and races to happen.  This film is no exception, though compared to the other films, I find this villain to be the strongest.The action and car chases are still cool and fun like the first movie.  It seems like they were mostly practical.  I did not notice much CGI which is a plus for the film.Overall, 2 Fast 2 Furious is a letdown sequel and one of the worst of the Fast films.  I do recommend watching this if you are interested in the following films.  If you do not see this first you might be a bit confused.
2014-05-27	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Love this movie. Love all of them. Made sure we got this one because it was the only one missing out of our collection. It was in great condition and delivered on time.
2014-03-28	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love Paul Walker.  I am so sad that he died in a car wreck.  This entire series is so fun to watch, no matter how many times I see it.  This one is my favorite next to the first one.
2013-12-13	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The driving was awesome, there was a good storyline, and it was wonderfully free of the hard-line cursing heard so much now in movies.
2013-05-04	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Excellent service. The product passed quality expectations. the price the better. Traducci&oacute;nThe delivery service was quick and unexpected. Very good quality product, equal to or better than advertised.
2004-01-30	4.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Yeah, it's contain import racing cars but not like the 1st part, the 1st part was all about racing movie, the 2nd part contains some races and more action scenes.In the end you got to watch it...
2012-11-27	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Very fun movie. Not always logical or realistic, but just a crazy good time. Amazing movie, I love it ! 2 fast 2 furious is da bomb !the best of the series by far !! in my opinion !
2013-07-21	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	even though a lot of people did not like it I have it to complete the collection but this movie is straight up fun from beginning to end love the racing and the chick and the guys and their style  tyrese  is buffed and takes no crap
2003-12-08	5.0	2	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	What can I say? Well, I can say alot, but I'll try to sum up my excitement in less than 1,000 words, which is nearly impossible! Paul Walker has done it again in this action-packed fun-filled sequel which takes you on a wild ride through the streets of Miami in some of the fastest and coolest looking cars ever created! The woman in the movie (Eva Mendes), is possibly one of the hottest creatures ever created by God! Any fan of the first movie will enjoy this one as well. Even though Vin Diesel couldn't make it, the movie still gets by without him. Tyrese delivers and awesome performance as Roman Pierce; the destruction derby bad boy from Barstow! This movie can do no wrong!
2004-04-11	1.0	3	6	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I can not begin to talk about how today's youth are drawn to franchises.  I would love to start on the bad acting.  But, then, I would have to get at the plot that was most likely stolen from the mind of some shallow teenager.  That would make me talk of how this is just a real expensive commercial for foreign car parts.  I just want to leave the people with one thing to say about the bad movie with a worse title.  The chicks are hot.
2003-06-11	4.0	5	7	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I have to admit that I had my doubts about this sequel when I realized that Vin Diesel was not going to be a part of the cast. I had even bigger doubts when I found out that Tyrese was going to be in the movie (I always doubt singers turned actors). But I must say that I really enjoyed "2 Fast 2 Furious".In this film, Brian O'Connor (Paul Walker), a former cop, enlists the help of childhood friend, Roman Pearce (Tyrese), to bring down a very wealthy and highly dangerous criminal in Miami.The cars are faster, the people and locations are more beautiful, and the story is much lighter than the original. There is much more humor thanks to Tyrese and Ludacris, another music artist who gives a great performance!I would suggest seeing this film. It's definitely one you don't want to miss!!!
2013-06-16	3.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie is okay.  Decent acting.  I think Tyrese did a great job in it and PW is always looking good and playing his part. Storyline is okay. Acting is okay. Car action is okay.
2012-12-24	4.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Movie starts off great, but for a car movie slows down a bit in the middle and at the end. But still some good action.
2013-06-02	3.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This wasn't a bad movie, and I'll admit that it was mildly fast/furious . However, these qualities were never excessive, which is, frankly, what the title promised & failed to deliver. At no point did either the amount of speed nor the amount of fury make me the least bit uncomfortable. Misleading product, at best. Black Vin Diesel was cool, though. Three stars.
2003-07-20	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	If you like fast cars and hot chicks, 2fast2furious is the movie for you.  You need watch the 1st Fast And The Furious Movie 1st tho.  I could not believe all of the dinamic special effects in the movie, it was off the hizzle my bizzle.  I gave it 5 stars, The blockbuster movie of the summer.  And while your at it, check out the awesome soundtracks for the Fast And The Furious Series.  Full of great Jams, and awesome beats.~Neo~
2013-03-31	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	it is a very good movie for its price a gotnd fast shiping for it to im very happy with wat i
2012-04-17	5.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love the Fast and the Furious movies! This movie is great and ties into the series. If you are a fan, this movie is a must.
2014-01-31	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	love watching these movies. the stunts are so great. can't wait to see more of the stunts. I love it
2013-07-02	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I bought this to have in my collection and it's as good as I remembered. I love all of these movies.
2004-06-23	2.0	3	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious is a stupefying glance into Hollywood.  It seems to represent a new kind of filmmaking where the bare minimum will do, revealing a real contempt for even the popcorn movie audience.The film shouldn't be expected to do much to begin with.  If you ever saw the preview, you'd think it was supposed to be stupid, summer fun.  There's nothing wrong with that, everyone grew up with popcorn summer movies in their lives, whether it was the 70s, 80s, 90s, whatever.  But this is a new chapter, I think.  The line between good video games and movies like this has been completely blurred.  I found the film so inept in even the intended aims, that I sat open-mouthed, speechless, watching the film unfold in what seemed like three times its actual length.I don't know where to begin.  The first film was what it was, a summer popcorn movie with fast, silly street machines racing, Vin Diesel inventing a career, and that was about it.  A sequel was almost a no-brainer, indeed.First off, I'm in disbelief that this was directed by John Singleton.  A promising young black director back when Boyz in the Hood appeared, he has now been completely neutralized by Hollywood.  After all, why should white directors have a monopoly on crap?  I can only hope Singleton was paid well for his troubles, as I believe his does have some talent.The film takes place in Miami, where the 'hero' of the original, no longer a copy, is now living a subsistence life street-racing.  He gets involved with some Cuban drug barons and an old friend who wound up in jail, etc, etc.  It doesn't matter.  The story and plotting are so ludicrous, it doesn't matter.  There isn't even an attempt at credibility, so I guess some credit is deserved.  In fact, the only way to really watch a movie like this and even try to enjoy it is to completely disregard any story or plot, and just trust that the dots somehow connect, at least on paper.  Speaking of Ludacris, he appears as some kind of heavily-connected gangsta thug who promotes these street races in neighborhoods the cops don't even bother patrolling.But the main draw of the film is the car chases, and the cars.  And I have to say, even in this, they've pretty much failed to deliver.  Yes, there are some wild street machines.  And there are plenty of chases.  But only a couple of stunts impress at all.  There appeared to be so much trickery involving the scenes, it was disappointing and lame.  The opener says it all.  I don't know how they've done it, but the shots of the drivers in their cars look very fake and processed.  Sure, I know the actors aren't driving, but you can tell digital fakery was involved, and if you look closely, there is a dearth of scenery from real, actual, impressive stunt driving.  It looks boring, and that's the real crime.The acting is appalling on all fronts.  The only person of any note or credibility is James Remar, character actor extraordinaire, always with a menacing face.  He has a side role. The two main stars are so bad, the film at times resembles a reading for the film, as opposed to the film.  They both look like male models saying lines, and indeed, at least one of them is.If you like video games, go and play Midnight Club Street Racing 2, or Burnout and its sequels, because they are the equivalent of watching this film.  No, they're better, because you can control them, and end them when you wish.  That it can't even deliver on the very simple, guilty-pleasure front it looks to be on is the real crime of 2 Fast.Not recommended, except if you're a car addict, and at least the film has a lot of extras.
2013-08-12	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This one is really fun.  Think I enjoyed it even more the second time, and it's nice to revisit the characters before they've been through all the more recent stuff. Watch it if you're a fan of the series.
2004-01-06	4.0	3	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Are you looking for street racing again?You may be a bit disappointed in this second Fast &amp; Furious movie. But it is a definitely better quality and more exciting movie. 2 Fast 2 Furious obviously has a much stronger storyline without repeating the same one as the previous movie. Even missing Vin Diesel, Paul Walker still able to drive this second movie to the peak. Very good one. Cann't wait for the third one to coming out.
2013-07-30	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie is the back bone of Paul Walker history in the story, need to have this movie to complete the whole story, if you like Fast Five, you would like this one.
2014-05-27	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Who doesn't love to watch Vin Diesel! I love this series but I don't know if it's more for the action or more to watch Vin. I would recommend the whole series!
2003-11-08	1.0	1	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie starts out with some pimp stuff...Paul Walker is a true pimp...I think he is about the worst actor ever to be born on earth...Without Big Vinny it is a pretty sad movie...Maybe if Vinny was in it, it could be a really great movie...See what really happens is that Aliens take over Paul Walkers body and some really wicked things happen...I will now give you a few examples like a bomb blows up in the best car ever the cadi, it is like crazy and this other guy named tyress...I don't really know about this guy but he is not the bomb...He just needs to stick to singing...I really never watched this movie because i was half wasted and then totally wasted in the first 5 mins of the movie...I drank this like big keg of beer on sat and then smoked like a mofo and could not even open my eyes at Blockbuster...it was crazy i ate this footlong hotdog last weekend...I thought i would tell you all that cuz i know you all love HOT DOGS...The movie that gets five stars ***** is Finding Nemo it is about a pissed off fish that kills these guys who were fishing in this pond and this fish out of no where comes and eats these guys out of the middle earth like in the Lord of the Rings or maybe Ringu about some chinese people who watch this movie and DIE!!!! Maybe if the Lord of the Rings had Paul Walker it would make it HORRIBLE just like the movie Fast and whatever 2...Go see something that really ROCKS like the school of hard rock...Just go to the movie store and buy anything except this horrible movie...ROCK on Johnny Knoxville you were great in Jack something...you a crazy guy and you know what i really wanna see Elf i heard it was great...Talk to ya later the movie guy
2003-09-15	5.0	2	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This Movie will have your heart beating FAST and FURIOUS yet again. This movie takes place in Miami and has some of the most AMAZING Heart pounding RACING on screen just as the original movie did. The movie is about an X cop on the run played by PAUL WALKER (Varsity Blues & The Joy Ride) who decides to go undercover to uncover a drug deal after having his arm twisted by the cops. He askes for his childhood pal played by buff Tyrese to be his partner. If the two can uncover the drug deal they will both get their records with the cops cleared and have a new chance for a fresh start. This is one of those movies that will have you on the edge of your seat. I give this movie 5 stars. Not art, but good Acting, Great racing sequences and a great flick!
2014-07-06	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Bought this movie to add to our collection. Just loooove the series.
2003-12-30	1.0	0	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	We got this as a gag gift for X-mas.  Yes. It's that bad.  I Don't know anything about cars, but I do know that the dudes shift gears like 20 times in one straighaway and I don't think cars have that many gears do they?  Also - there are many scenes where people aren't wearing seatbelts.  This is supposed to be marketed to young people, and I don't mind the illegal racing, but at least wear your freakin seatbelts people!  I know street racing is alive and well, but the movie doesn't seem very realistic - they weren't even winning enough money to cover the damages on their cars from the race!  Anyway - the acting is bad, as to be expected in a movie more about cars than people. And I was a little dissapointed that dude didn't get the girl in the end - what's up with that?
2013-01-09	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love these movies and when this came up as a Black Friday week deal I had to pick it up.  While not one of favorites of the series the blu ray is solid audio and video wise.  If you're a fan...you're probably going to wind up getting it, so just do it :)
2003-10-19	5.0	1	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I watched this movie because...to be honest...I was bored andmy husband recently bought the DVD.  I was pleasantly surprised.  I loved it, the coloring, action, camera work...the characters were all fabulous.  I never would have thought I would have liked it...I was wrong!  Now I need to watch the first movie!
2003-06-15	1.0	2	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I never laughed so hard until I saw 2F2F.  While in the theater I accidently stood up several times, pointed my finger at the screen and yelled something to the effect ot "HAHA you stupid ricers".The movie is so unrealistic I have no clue why the liberal media is moaning that this movie is promoting street racing, that's just Darwin at work.Why is it unrealistic?  Why would people put 800 pounds of junk like stereo equipment and playstations on a race car.  Weight robs speed.Also I love the ricer graphics.  If you need a good laugh, see this movie!The acting was ok, the stunts were ok, the women were ok nothing spectacular except the nice, huge & comfy leather seats at the cinema.
2014-02-06	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	If you like fast cars, loads of action and some pretty faces (and a little over the top), then you can experience the usual for this Franchise.  Have seen all of these.  This one was one of my favorite because of the story and characters.
2012-11-19	3.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Its hard to believe this movie is so old the first time i watched it was at a drive in. Do drive in movies even exist anymore?Anyway 2 Fast 2 Furious when it came out and i saw it i absolutely loved it Walker and Gibson worked really well together and Eva was her usual beautiful self. The acting itself wasn't bad and the movie itself was fluid and easy to understand. Many people were expecting it to reference the original more but i think this film was trying to be more like life. When caught up in a tough situation most people dont have the time to sit down and have flashbacks. While it is true the past will come up and bite you and people can dredge up the past this film was attempting to be like real life and not live in the past.The humor in this film consists of mostly one liners that will make you chuckled and laugh. Its a true action movie keeping the drama and moments where silly things happen that would deliver side splitting humor to a minimum. The car chases in this film are long and for the most part very eventful basically everything you would expect from a hollywood car chase.The plot is simple to follow and for the most part well pieced together. The cars in the film are cool looking for the period however i think street racing look of cars have come a long way in the years since.This film does have everything needed for a street racing film- Nice cars- Races- Good guys- Bad guys- Car chases- The law- Shootouts- An abundance of half nude womenHowever even with all that those looking for this to be a sequel to the first one would be disappointed. This film should be looked at as a racing movie of its own right that makes few brief references to the first one.The film isn't bad, its fairly good 3/5 stars for those who aren't looking for a sequel. Those who are would likely give it a 2/5 star rating.
2003-12-21	5.0	2	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Anyone who says part one was way better is smokin somethin crazy. I had to force myself to like the first one. It tried to be a street racing movie but only had one race through the whole movie! This one has way better stunts, way more racing, hotter girls, better location, and the best part is there is no Vin Diesel. Whoever thought that guy could pass for an actor should be slapped. Tyrese comes in for his first major role and does great. He is super funny and you can tell in the acting that Paul Walker had a much better time acting with him in this one. The story behind the movie is all that irritated me. While busting a drug lord seems cool I think they should have kept it closer to the racing, which is the one way part one is superior. The soundtrack is way better in this one. It has no one from Murder Inc. in it which is a good thing, and its just packed with some of the best hip hop tracks I've heard all year. I really hope they make a third one.
2003-06-09	5.0	2	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Omg this one killed the first one. Everyone was all skeptical about it since Paul Walker was the only returning main actor. But forget all that cuz this one corrected all the mistakes that the first one made. More racing, more action, and actual plot,hotter girls, better racing scenes, better cars, and way better acting performance from Paul Walker. So overall this movie kicked... Go see it if you love racing like me.
2009-10-19	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	The HD DVD was in great condition and it got here sooner than I expected.
2013-02-07	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious is a great movie because it was in High definition and everyone should watch and own it.
2014-01-31	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This was a gift for my grandson , who now has all the Fast and Furious movies. Will miss Paul Walker!
2013-08-10	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	More comical than the others but just as stimulating!  They eye candy didn't suffer at all.  I like how I always seem to be rooting for the &#34;bad guy&#34; who's really the &#34;good guy&#34;!
2003-10-04	2.0	13	19	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	"2Fast 2Furious" is the only film I can remember that is guilty of committing two hyperboles in a single title.  There's nothing particularly fast nor particularly furious - unless you count the audience - about this sequel to "The Fast and the Furious," the original box office sensation that really wasn't all that great to begin with but which looms up like an action movie "War and Peace" when placed up against this installment.  And what, may I ask, has happened to John Singleton?  Is this really the best the director of "Boyz `n the Hood" has to offer?The plotting is little more than an excuse to spin out a series of interminable and mind-numbingly boring race sequences, none of which score very high on the credibility meter.  Particularly ludicrous is a scene featuring a Florida drug kingpin, - whom one would naturally assume would want to be keeping as low a public profile as possible as he goes about conducting his business - who instead sends a bunch of his boys out to wreak havoc and splatter carnage all along the freeway simply to determine which of them would be the most reliable driver to help him sneak his laundered money out of the country!  Indeed, the overall storytelling is so messy that one can't even figure out who is chasing who after awhile.  Moreover, the "acting" consists basically of people hanging tough and strutting their stuff ad nauseam."2Fast 2Furious" can't even account for its badness by pleading low aspirations.  After all, "American Graffiti" was also a movie about "people driving their cars."  But oh what a difference between that film and this!
2004-03-09	1.0	14	24	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I was absolutely SHOCKED when I saw that a director with the ability of John Singleton (Boyz N the Hood, Poetic Justice, Higher Learning) had crafted this mess.There is just no plot, no script, sub-par effects, and atrocious acting.  When are people going to learn that Paul Walker's hair can't carry a movie.  If I heard him say "'bro" one more time I was going to throw my TV out a window.If you have the option, just lay out the money to go to a car show.  You'll get to wander around as long as you want looking at all the tricked-out super-cars without all that annoying "movie" thing to get in the way.
2013-07-17	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Enjoyed watching this movie as I have collected all of the series and enjoy all of the special featured that come with it.
2003-12-11	2.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Computer car stunts? Have we all forgotten the lessons of the 1970's, where a couple of good car wrecks could save an otherwise lousy movie?I'm being generous giving this 2 stars. John Singleton is horrible and should immedietly be deported to the former Soviet Union.Lame cars, action, lame everything. Go rent Hooper instead.
2006-01-09	1.0	2	7	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I WOULD LOVE TO SEE THE CAST OF THIS MOVIE DRESSED UP AS HOT DOGS AND THROWN INTO A CAGE WITH STAR JONES AND MARV ALBERT.(...)
2013-08-01	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	One of my ultimate favorite movies.  I just had to add it to my collection.It was an early Christmas present to me.
2014-01-13	4.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Not as good as I remember. But still entertaining. 1, 4, 5, and 6 are the best ones out there.
2012-12-28	4.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I'm a fan of street racing and tuning cars. I wanted to add this great movie to my HD-DVD collection. I had an HD-DVD player before a Bluray and wanted a few of these HD-DVDs as these are now cheaper due to being obsolete.
2013-06-03	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I BOUGHT THIS IN HD FORMAT. UNFORTUNATELY, HD NEVER SURVIVED AND BLU RAY WON. SO I CONVERTED TO BLU RAY. STILL LOVE ALL OF THE FAST AND FURIOUS MOVIES AND CANT WAIT TO GET 6 AND 7 ON DVD.
2003-11-27	2.0	0	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	"2 Fast 2 Furious" is a sloppy sequel of an original that was no masterpiece in its own right. The cars are arguably just as whatever-you-want-to-call-them, but the chases aren't, and the plot suffers from a severe case of reduced star wattage: Vin Diesel lended his dome for the first movie, then skipped town in favor of the "xXx" series. Actor/singer Tyrese and his dome fills in, but the inherent "Vinness" of the maiden road race has left the building.Paul Walker's back, though, as Brian O'Connor, the most unconvincing cop to ever breathe air, only now he's been disavowed from the force for letting Vin's character escape and select another movie franchise. No badge in hand, Brian roams Miami, street race hustlin, catching the eye of a federal agent (Eva Mendes) who puts him undercover to land a major drug kingpin (Cole Hauser, channeling "Miami Vice"). Tyrese plays Roman, Brian's former buddy with an unclear grudge. Roman and Brian pose and paw and return smoldering glares at one another to such an extent it's possible to read the film with homoerotic subtext.What an uninspired, pedestrian movie. "2 Fast 2 Furious" features Ludacris as a chop shop owner who does not seem to work - he emcees a jet ski race, though - and talentless model Devon Aoki as a street racing tart. Mendes is the flavor of the month but there's something curiously asexual and detached about her.At least Singleton has enough integrity left spare the audience needless gratuity.
2013-06-27	2.0	0	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	My husband watched the first in this serious - purchased both of the together - and after seeing the first one he said he had no desire to see the second one, so we returned this item.
2013-11-22	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	It is exactly what you want sometimes: mindless viewing, but with a plot (somewhat), pretty people and quippy lines.  However, I did miss the glower of Vin (he is not in this one).  The cars are painted very silly pastels, which I kind of loved against the macho gangster backdrop.  There are wonderful side characters, which you wish would come back, but since I started this series at Five, I know that they don't make it that far.  I am not a car girl, nor a speed freak, but these movies always provide an amusing escape.
2014-03-30	3.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Ultra Violet code was invalid.This was supposed to be new otherwise the movie works fine.ILove the movie. Take care Scott
2003-10-15	1.0	3	7	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This film is an awful sequel to an awful movie beginning at the start. Thank God Vin Diesel is not in this. He is an awful actor. This movie is too fake. Everything to the cars is bull. What is with the title? 2 Fast 2 Furious? Next is Biker Boyz. What the hell is with the titles, do it right, Fast and the Furious 2, there, it's fine. Biker Boys. There it's fine. People working on this project are dumb. And also what the hell is up with all the rappers and hip-hop music people in the movie business? They don't belong. They belong in the music business and actors belong in the movie business. Get them out of here. This director has his head up his ass. XXX, Fast and the Furious, he has so much more to learn.
2003-12-10	1.0	2	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie showed us a whole new level of bad movies.  From the unrealistic car scenes, to the abundant plot holes this movie has you falling asleep from the beginning.  The first movie showed us that nitrous can make a car slightly faster, but the second movie showed us that nitrous will allow you to reach light speed somehow.  When the cars in this movie use nitrous it somehow has the same effect as the space ships do in Star Wars when they travel through light speed.  When anyone seems to use nitrous everything gets kind of burry and all you see are streaking lights like Star Wars uses. All the car scenes in this movie are totally unrealistic.  The fact that we are supposed to believe that an EVO and an Eclipse are going to stand a prayer next to a Saleen Mustang, a Dodge Viper, and a Corvette Z06 is very insulting to anyone in the automotive world. The plot in this movie leaves nothing to the imagination as we are supposed to believe that this Paul Walker guy turns up missing and the police are after him, but then the next thing we know he is working for the police with his buddy who was also running from the law at one point.  This is a movie that you want to miss!
2013-12-31	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Fast-packed action from start to finish, I loved this movie very much.  Both Paul Walker and Tyrese were fantastic in their driving skills, interactions between each other and the story was very believable.  I hadn't seen any of these Fast And Furious videos and because of Paul Walker's tragic demise, I decided to purchase two of the movies here on Amazon.com.  Thank Heavens for being able to purchase out of date books and movies on this wonderful website.  It gives those of us the chance to catch up to seeing and reading about matters people have long been speaking about.  R.I.P. Paul and your friend, Roger Rodas.
2014-05-01	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Even though Dom was missing from this one, it was still a great movie. Can't wait to see #3 and the others to come.
2013-12-27	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie was delievered to my house very quickly. It was in perfect condition. It was very reasonably priced and I was highly satisfied. If your sceptical about purchasing movies online don't be, amazon will take good care of you.
2007-07-23	3.0	0	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I might potentially have groupie tendencies when it comes to Tyrese. Pretty much any movie that he's put in, I'm going to track run to the show to see.  To put in one of my other favorite things to look at (cars) only complimented the movie more.  The cop in "The Fast and the Furious" is on the lookout to arrest some dealers and needs some manpower to help him out.  He comes up on an ex-con and a past friend, Tyrese's character, to help him fight the bad guys.  Again, I don't get into action movies, but pretty much every time Tyrese came on set, I was all eyes and ears.  I didn't really get into Eva Mendez's character and the end of the movie was way too Hollywood for me, but the building of the plot, and again the cars, helped it out some.  I was also delighted to see Ludacris in this one.
2013-07-30	5.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	this is the last time I am rating something.  Requiring so many words for books and DVDs is ridiculous.  If a person didn't want to see the movie or read the book they wouldn't order it.
2013-11-05	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I just regot into the Fast and Furious trilogy and even though it doesn't have Vin/Dom in it, its still really, really good! I love it!
2014-01-09	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	i didn't like the movie, as in i was disapointed in it but when you watch the others it all fits in nicely
2009-04-14	3.0	0	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Could be better, some one told Paul Walker he could act and they keep paying him for it. Way to go Paul.
2010-12-28	4.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	okay movie, the case was broken when it arrived, so the cd was loose inside, it doesnt look as new
2004-03-02	4.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Brian O'Connor (Paul Walker) was kicked off the force for his little stunt in the Fast and the Furious and has been on the run ever since.  He fled all the way to Florida, where he became friends with Tej (Ludacris), the man who knew where all the action was.  Before too long, Brian couldn't even find anyone who would race against him and word was out.  The cops grabbed Brian and made him an offer - help them with a case or go to jail.  The cops have been trying to nab the premier drug dealer in the area, Carter Verone (Cole Hauser), for some time, but haven't been able to make anything stick.  Conveniently, Mr. Verone is looking for some drivers to make drops for him and that is where Brian comes in.  Brian takes the deal, but on one condition - this his buddy, Roman Pierce (Tyrese), gets a piece too.  Before they know it, Brian and Roman are in way over their heads as they combat fellow street racers, sexy undercover cops, an insane boss who is not above torture and the fast, furious life in Miami.I really liked this film and would say that, in some ways, it was better than the first.  For one thing, this one seemed to actually have a plot, which was nice, even though it was a really simple one.  For another, the street racing was awesome.  The first race that the movie opens up with is one of the best scenes of the whole movie, but all of the racing sequences are great.  The cars are hot and so are the effects and you feel like you are really gaining speed while you are watching the film.  The special features on the DVD are a little skimpy, but there is a sequence that is worth watching about how Brian made it from California to Florida.  Well worth your time to check out!
2004-02-26	1.0	1	4	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie has set a new degree of boredom for me. Why is it that this year seems to have had a bunch of really bad films. All I can say is that I didn't like this movie at all.
2013-12-03	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	If you have purchased the original Fast and the Furious then you know you need the 2nd one. And you might as well by the next four so you can do a Fast and the Furious movie marathon. Makes for a great movie night.
2014-02-08	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I think it is better than F and F 6 about equal to F and F 5.  I loved Tyrese and Paul Walker's interactions.
2007-12-27	4.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie is pretty brain dead, but a fun ride anyway.  It looks and sounds phenomenal on HD DVD--a bit step up from the already decent DVD release.  I now have the other two movies in the series on order on HD DVD.
2003-07-01	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	i really liked this just as much as the first the cars again were just as beautiful as they were in the first.i think paul walker is a good actor. even without vin disiel this was still a very interesting plot. i hope they are planning a third and and forth. this is a movie i could watch over and over and not get tried of it.go see it if you like racing and action.
2003-10-02	5.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I loved 2 fast 2 furious.  It's better than the first one (it's easier than you think to get over Vin leaving)...the cars are better, the location is better (you can't beat Miami)...Tyrese is great, and he adds a lot of comic value I didn't expect.Much more exciting and fast paced than the first movie.  Better stunts too.I looked at the DVD's extras last night...there was some pretty cool stuff, but the deleted scenes and outtakes aren't too interesting.  I liked watching Ludacris' making of his video, but they didn't have the actual video you could watch, which would have been nice.So it's a great movie with some decent extras.
2004-01-04	5.0	7	8	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Wow!  This movie has been getting real mixed reviews .... personally, I am a huge Vin Diesel fan - the man rocks! ... and whilst I love the man, and I am disappointed he wasn't in this sequel, I also thought 2Fast 2Furious was a damn good movie.I thought the storyline was pretty cool actually, people need to take the 'tone' of the movie into account ..... this is about cars, fast cars, hot women, buff men, and essentially tells us what happens to Brian O'Connor (Paul walkers character) after the 'open' ending of the fast and the furious!  Tyrese isn't Vin Diesel but then I don't think they tried to make out that he was! There are absolutely superb action shots and plenty of movement in the plot to make it kick ass.Ummmmmm.... make sure you check out the special features section, cause there is a couple of short films to get you to where we start the movie.I get the feeling that there's gonna be another fast and furious movie coming out, cause I think they're going to get together Vin Diesel, Tyrese, and Paul Walker to finish off the series! That would be most awesome.If you like awesome cars, action, and humour then you won't be disappointed in this movie!  I looooooooove it!  And I'm a chick.To those of you out there who thought it sucked ..... maybe you should watch it again and give it a 'go'.  As in, forget the hype, and just watch the movie.Kristina
2012-04-08	4.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I enjoy watching 2 Fast 2 Furious. I think I like it more then the first Fast and Furious. What I like more about it is the story the movie plays. A little bit more drama. My fav. scene is when they are running from the cop's. They go into a building and a bunch of car's come out to distract the cop's so they can get away.
2003-12-13	1.0	1	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie seemed like it took 2 days to write the script.  It begins with the star of the first film Brian O' Conner racing his Nissan Skyline to make some money.  I live in Downtown Miami and there could never be a race around downtown that fast without some driver running over a group of kids or seniors.  The police shoot Paul Walker's car with a ...looking gun and coerce him into going undercover to infiltrate a money launderer/soft gangster named Carter Verone(Cole Hauser).  Brian says he wants a partner, Roman Pearce played by Tyrese.  Why does there HAVE to be actors in movies just because they are somewhat good looking.  The Fast and the Furious was a great movie and this one pretty much erases all the credibilty and respect that the original had.  Paul Walker should have demanded creative control and made sure it did not end up ... LIKE IT DID.  The people that saw this movie in the theatres do not have a life and anyone who enjoyed it is on some kind of controlled substance or alcohol.
2003-06-19	1.0	0	7	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	When I read things like "best movie ever" and "better than then the first" under a movie like 2 Fast 2 Furious it make me well, Furious. This is not the kind of movie anyone should consider their favorite, it pan handles to the audience, merely repeats the first films action (fast cars + trucks = crash) and  dares to go on without Vin Diesel. To say the least the first one was also a steaming pile of hollywood excrament but  this one surely takes the cake on useless and horrible sequels. If you are so sorely in need of seeing cars watch Nascar or for the luv of pete play a racing video game, those two things combined will feed your need for speed without giving into movies such as this. It just seems like movie audiences today have no kind of standards, it appears that they can, will, and do watch anything that comes out.
2013-12-20	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie does take place in Miami, Florida, United States, so there should be no surprise that the aesthetics is filled with lots of colors. It serves as a good sequel to The Fast And The Furious. The bickering between Tyrese Gibson(yes, that is Tyrese' s last name) and Paul Walker is hilarious. This time there is more fun-filled car races and other car scenes along with action.
2013-04-01	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	this is the 2 movie the ser. i love the movie. u should see the movie if u like fast car and hot guys.
2013-06-04	4.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Worth the watch - just good fun to watch Paul Walker and Tyrese mix it up and give us all another good ride.
2012-12-02	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I love the whole series of these movies--this one is good tho it would have been better with Vin in it
2014-03-20	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	What can I say that others haven't already?  Who doesn't love all the Fast movies?  Paul Walker grew into this role from the first movie on and was a favorite for all of us.  Vin Diesel?  Loved him from the first and love him still.  If he's in a movie, I'm gonna watch it!  And the rest of the cast adds so much intrigue and fun.  Lastly....I love movies about fast cars, heists, the sorta bad guys getting away with it.
2006-12-20	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	THIS MOVIE IS A STAND ALONE. THERE IS NO NEED TO SEE THE FIRST ONE TO FOLLOW THE STORYLINE. TYRESE GIBSON IS IN THIS MOVIE WHAT MORE DO I NEED TO SAY.
2003-06-08	5.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Then is must-see fot the summer 03. this movie has everything fast cars,beautiful women,and non-stop action.I think that Tyrese fill the role of Vin diesel nicely. This movie is kick ... all the way. Can't wait for fast and the furious 3. Go check it out this summmer.
2004-05-20	3.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 fast 2 furious was indeed good but not so good I mean The reason I went is to see the Nissan Skyline!!!Overal the street racing was cool just to much special effects.Lets get real vipers,corvette,s281 saleen stang cant catch 2 imports?@ imports beatinging up Powerhouse muscle.Dont get me wrong Im a huge import fan but the whole movie doesnt make sense its just loose you from the beginning like whats the whole point.Dont get me wrong the racing is cool but the plot is corny.
2011-12-24	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Who hasnt already seen this movie? We all have & we all know that its the weakest link in the fast & furious chain. I only purchased this to satisfy my husband who said we needed it to complete the collection.
2014-02-06	4.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I really like this series.  It's almost a young version of the 007 movies.  I gave it 4 stars because it took a while to download - could be my internet, but I don't think it was.  I was disappointed that Vin Damme was not in this one though.
2004-02-02	4.0	4	6	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	I am &quot;NOT&quot; a MTV person, or a Vin Desil triple X fanatic...but I can honestly say that this sequel is a very good movie.I hated part 1, so I was very surprised by enjoying this movie. The sepecil effects are better!!!! And the racing scenes seem more realistic.If you like fast cars, then you should buy this DVD.
2003-11-07	5.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Vin Diesel's missing in action, but is replaced by Eva Mendes! Forget about it cuh, you like 2 eat other people's sandwiches. Brian (Paul Walker) is back and doing the street racing thang in Miami this time around. Ludacris and the daughter of Benihana are in this movie, why? &quot;2 Fast 2 Furious&quot; is 2 much for you 2 handle if you're not in2 this kind of movie. Secret agent posing as an evil man's mistress, distrustful! Sun tanning has never been so much fun. Tyrese isn't much of a pickpocketer either!
2003-10-14	4.0	1	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Even though this movie is not as good as the first, a car lover is going to like the movie regardless.  Granted, the plot was kinda weak, but you can't go wrong with the even better souped up cars, and an incredibly intense racing scene to start the movie out.  The racing scene was kinda unrealistic, but come on, it's a movie.  Thats's the whole point.  What disappointed me was the 2 cars that were chosen to be the main cars.  They sucked.  Why didn't they use the Nissan Skyline?  That car could have been the nicest and one of the fasted cars I have ever seen.  That car was tight.  They didn't show it enough.  I think the lack of Vin was missed.  I think he really helped make the first movie a good one.  But overall I think this is a must see.  Movies don't have to be realistic.  Life is boring.  That's why we have movies.  For those of you who diss this movie because of its lack of realism or sad plot....shut up.  No one is asking you to watch it again.  At times it is intense and the racing scenes are better with more skilled driving.  Just watch it.  But you don't have to take my word for it.
2003-10-18	4.0	2	2	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 Fast 2 Furious is one of a few sequels that is actually better than the first.  This one picks up where the first one left off with Brian O'Connor, now off the police force, drag racing cars in Miami.  After getting caught by the police, O'Connor agrees to help take down a drug kingpin who needs good drivers to help transport "goods."  Joining him is his childhood friend, Roman Pierce, who has had a falling out with Brian, but we do not know why.  The thin plot is really just an excuse to show fast cars, beautiful women, and great action, but who cares?  This is a great movie to watch that never slows down from beginning to end.  Just like The Fast and the Furious, this one has great driving sequences, some which remind you of the Blues Brothers, and an overall feel of cool to the whole movie.  The scene where Brian and Roman are trapped by the police towards the end is great as is their Dukes of Hazard jump off a pier.  This is an exciting movie that will keep you interested throughout.Paul Walker and Tyrese Gibson are very good together as Brian O'Connor and Roman Pierce.  Their friendship is surprisingly believable and much better over the one between Walker and Diesel.  Personally, I think that is the reason this one is better.  Eva Mendes and Devon Aoki are basically eye candy for the movie and look great doing so.  Cole Hauser stars as Carter Verone, the drug kingpin, who unknowingly has been infiltrated by numerous federal agents and police officers. Rapper Ludacris also stars in a very good role as Taj, a former racer who now stays out of the races and organizes them instead.  The DVD offers plenty of very good extras including the widescreen presentation, trailers, deleted scenes, outtakes, commentaries, and behind the scenes documentaries.  2 Fast 2 Furious is a fun movie to watch that is even better than the first.  Don't miss 2 Fast 2 Furious!
2010-01-03	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Speed--it's easy to get and it's as close as the nearest set of high-performance wheels. Brian O'Connor, now a disgraced cop, fell victim to it--and now he's paying the price. As far as his bosses and the FBI brass are concerned, the hothead undercover officer threw one of their largest investigations ever. If you are wanting to see a movie with more awesome cars, well this is it. Very entertaining.
2005-07-18	1.0	1	3	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	This movie was really bad.. The worst part was when the main character attempeted to use some urban slang. I damn near broke my remote trying to turn it so fast.
2014-01-29	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	2 has all been my favorite of all the Fast and the Furious movies great movie check it out :)
2004-01-19	4.0	4	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	In 2001 "The Fast and the Furious" was testimony to the unexpected lure of a howling engine, blue smoke from spinning tires, and hot dudes and babes in even hotter cars. Oh yeah, and the moody glower of breakout star Vin Diesel.So what do you do for the sequel? More smoke, babes, dudes and howling. And no Diesel.The result? Well, as expected, director John Singleton ("Boyz N the Hood") did not make a movie as good as "FF1." This is way better.How is it better? Let us count the ways. First, he got rid of all the extraneous stuff -- like plot. "2 Fast 2 Furious" has something to do with money and drugs, but Singleton wisely doesn't spend too much time sweating the details. Basically, it boils down to one of two situations: The guys have something and must drive 120 mph to escape with it, or they are after something and must drive 120 mph to capture it.Second, the lumpish presence of Diesel and his biceps is barely missed at all. Like the first version, this film seems to be set up as a star vehicle for blue-eyed, Steve McQueenesque Paul Walker. But once again it looks as if the sidekick walks off with the movie.An actor, rapper and model, Tyrese (as Walker's pal Roman Pearce) brings something new to Diesel's role as the moody, hard-driving loner -- a personality. He's not just buffed and cocky, he's got such a nice way with a one-liner that he grows on you.Like virtually everyone else in the sequel, Tyrese was not part of the original. This is exactly the same movie as the first one except for the fact that almost all the actors have changed, it is now set in Miami instead of Southern California, and a Cuban drug dealer (Cole Hauser of "White Oleander") has been added as a villain.The constant is that these are still the sort of hot-wheelers who -- when a 20-foot jump is unexpectedly inserted at the end of a white-knuckle race -- find it to be an exhilarating and amusing development. They sail hundreds of feet through the air hollering "Whoooooooo!" at the top of their lungs, and have a good laugh about it at the finish line. (No one gets hurt, of course, despite the lack of helmets, seat belts or parachutes.)The new premise is that Walker's character, Brian O'Conner, has been kicked off the police force and is scratching out a borderline existence in Florida as a street racer. His buddy, Tej (rapper Ludacris, an improvement over Ja- Rule in "FF1"), runs the garage, finds him races and helps him live the car culture life. Call it "Boyz Under the Hood."O'Conner needs money and is offered a chance to make some -- and, of course,clear his name -- on an undercover job with U.S. Customs. In an amazing coincidence, the undercover agent he is working with happens to be a gorgeous brunette (Eva Mendes of "Training Day"). He also picks up his pal Roman (Tyrese) to help run the scam. And we're off.RIVETING DRAG RACESOne nice touch is that in Miami they are apparently not into that boring, side-by-side drag racing from "FF1." This is real street racing with NASCAR- style fender-rubbing and bumper-bumping. There are at least three set pieces in which cars careen through traffic, cutting off semitrailers, skidding across lanes and creating spectacular crashes. It is riveting -- except for those who have driven there, who will recognize it as just another typical day on a Miami freeway.However, it should be said that Singleton does a nice job of keeping the gratuitous violence to a minimum. Nothing says summer film fun like explosions,guns and cartwheeling cars -- and that's all here -- but the gore and mayhem is restrained. The scene you'll be talking about afterward, involving a rat, a bucket and a blowtorch, is especially clever since its effect depends almost entirely on the viewer's imagination, not grisly details.The rest of the action is more likely to spark interest in high-performance racing gear than gunplay.HIGH-SPEED FANTASYThere will probably be a rash of concerned citizens who decry the crazy driving showcased in the film. But the FF movies may be saving the clutch-and- shift car from extinction. (Although someone should point out that there is not a street racer in the world that has a gear that can be engaged at 114 mph to make the car go faster.)At the end, the whole thing makes no more sense than the conclusion, an implausible, pointless, high-speed leap over hundreds of feet of water. But that doesn't mean you won't be hollering "Whoooooooo!" all the way.
2013-06-27	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	well Amazon did it again,they had the Fast and Furious DVD I needed to bring my collection up to date..now all I have to do is wait for the next two to come out! This is such a good series,I watch it anytime I get a chance.
2006-04-30	5.0	2	5	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	hey,does anyone know what the name of the song played in the 2 fast 2 furious trailor/ preview is?
2003-07-27	5.0	1	1	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Paul Walker [was awesome] in this movie. His 500 horsepower twin turbo nissan skyline GTR was off the hook. Paul Walkers Green Mitsubishi Lancer evo and roman's Mitsubishi eclipse spider were also [great]. Definitely A must buy movie. If the first fast and the furious had as big of an impact on your lives as it did on mine then you'll Love this one.
2013-09-18	5.0	0	0	2-Fast-2-Furious-(Widescreen-Edition)	Action, love the driving. The actors enter act well. Not a bad story line. Have seen the series except the last one, can't wait for it to come out.
2004-07-29	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This Movie is Good . And F all you domestic car drivers. Yall think yall got the best and fastest car. But you dont.............
2001-10-16	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If your into the import seen, this movie rocks.  I can't wait till this movie comes out on DVD and they better have the option, &quot;fullscreen&quot;.  After seeing this movie for the first time, I was so motivated to get into my car and race.  I ended up getting pulled over for street racing with my souped-up civic after the movie.  I don't recommend that type of motivation to anyone that ends up watching this movie, but it sure does motivate you to buy more parts to your car.  I think this movie has helped the movie industry and the automotive industry and maybe your local government(i.e. traffic tickets).  I can't wait!!!
2002-08-21	5.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious has absolutely EVERYTHING anyone could want in a movie. It has hot guys, hot girls, hot cars, great music and things blowing up. I can't imagine anyone who likes movies like this one not liking it. A totally HOT movie with my #1 favorite actor, Vin Diesel!
2003-04-02	1.0	1	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Besides great lookin cars, and interesting,uh, uh, nevermind. This was one of the silliest movies EVER. What the heck? Cars do not go that fast , nitro or not. And the plot was like a stew sitting in the fridge for weeks without being touched.Vin Diesel is a good actor, yet here it's just a cashbag to do. Paul Walker is the only sharp act here in the flick. Not bad.And the fact that after seeing this flick, street racing went up 200%...well, proves that this is a movie not to make if you dont want to be a bad influence.Vroooom-pah-puff-putzzzzzzz.....
2002-03-11	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I was disappointed in this movie. I've recently watched it and found it to be a 2 hour movie with a 1 hour( thats TV, not movie time) plot, lots of loud music, plenty of fast cars and some very interesting driving (I wonder how much of that was faked?)but not much else. I don't consider it to be a good value, it might not even be worthwhile for fans of fast cars and racing.
2001-12-27	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	hollywood makes a big difference, especially with real world topics like street racing. myself, like thousands of street racers who watched this movie noticed the hollywood twists, and turns. like the the 10 minute quarter mile, 4 cars down a track, using NoS after you shift from third, fine looking chicks racing andworking on cars. c'mon, one of the slowest cars i've scene on the quarter mile was around 18 sec., if you street race in cali, you can only race 2 cars down a track, that can barely  fit spectators and the cars that race, NoS is for the take off, turbo does the high end work, and fine chicks working on and racing cars, have you street racers seen lisa kubo? but ..., i liked it. a lot of real world tech. most was done by the editor of super street, which made a god combo with the movie. they had the sponsors, NoS, veilside, hks, greddy, bomex, and the list goes on, including some internet street racing sites. so the cars were close to reality as hollywood would try to bend. reality, yes the cops do bum rush the tracks, and khaos breaks out, especially when the track is poppin, but to sum this short little article up street racing deserves the attention. as an ongoing street racer, i recomend this flick, but if you are a REAL racer, look at what's hollywood, and look at what's REAL!!!BaY aReA/NoR-CaL representin.........
2002-10-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is the best one I've seen in a long time, and I watch movies a lot.  The sweetest cars are in the movie, the actors/actresses do a very good job and there is a suspeseful plot. Anybody who likes one of the following will love this movie: cars, hot girls, hot guys(says the girls), action, or good actors.  The DVD version is even better, there are bonus features. The movie is wicked and the bonus stuff is the only thing that could make it better.  I extremely reccomend this movie, and if you dont buy it, at least watch it.
2002-01-03	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	As an active racer and loving every moment of it....of course its the people like us who will know how it really is. The movie comes close but to bad we dont have every car looking as good as that on the streets here. You have your Supra and stupp but what was funny was there was no Integra as one of the main cars.....the most widely driven import I would guess besides the civic. Anyway....A good movie to watch but you just have to remember, its still a movie.....Oh and um....yeah....Hondas rule... the hell with mustangs.
2004-04-15	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is complete poo! Nice cars, and women are the only reason why this film got a star. A completely dreadful storyline, and the acting wasnt much better either. Steer clear of this.
2002-12-27	5.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Regardless of the bashing from previous reviews this movie is actually quite good. Granted the plot could have been better, but for car lovers like myself I really enjoyed it. It may only be for the select few amongst the crowds but I for one like racing of all types and tuned-up cars, somewhat skimpy women and action scenes is more than enough entertainment for me. Yeah, I guess that is shallow but hey I like easy-going movies.As for teaching people to drive insane and kill people in the streets...anyone who would actually do that is dumber than words can say. If your dumb, nothing is going to change that so don't buy this movie if that is what you expect yourself to do afterwards. Second of all anyone in their right mind would realize that the action is done with professionals, and also in the end they suffered consequences for their "evil"(as Ian put it) actions. No one should go out and deal in thievery, drugs, or participate in illegal street racing, it is very dangerous and WILL just land you in jail or the morgue.I give the movie 2 thumbs up for well tweaked cars.
2004-02-10	1.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	this is the epitome of the movies I hate.  Essentially plotless, unless you consider car chase plot, this is a hour and a half long commercial for sport tuning your car.  The story line is completely un-believable, the characters are un-believable, and the ONLY saving grace of this movie is that it's got "pretty cars" and "bright lights."
2002-02-25	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you are looking for something more than just racing, and awesome cars, DONT BUY THIS. Aweful acting that makes me want to pull my teeth out at times.
2001-10-10	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A total thrill and a fantastic movie full of cool characters and stylish cars. This is a very fast film with a simple plot. However this is where it loses to 'Gone in 6o Seconds'. The action in 'The Fast and the Furious' is better, more drastic, compelling and swift and the actors follow the same lines. The plot therefore has to be simple and in contrast to 'Gone in 60 seconds' it is thin. 'Gone in 60 seconds' had a great plot (if not a bit farfetched) but it did not contain the stylish antics which is present in 'The Fast and the Furious'. The weak plot in 'The Fast and the Furious' does not affect the entertainment it brings to the audiences and it is definitely worth a five star award. My advise is watch and where a seat belt.
2002-01-06	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Great action. Worth getting simply because of the cars and driving expierence. Plot is decent, acting and script need work but who cares. That's not why you are buying this movie. A movie meant for entertainment and that is exactly what it does.
2001-06-29	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is the most amazing movie on earth. With that celica with the NOS. The charger is raw to.
2003-03-01	5.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Since me and some of my friends are into fixing cars especially me , This movie represent us in similar ways.  Its not getting into truble what I like, but the rush you get from it.  After the movie first was shown my friends and I went for a get together ,lined up, hit the exelerator and took of ,when the cops shold up and some were cought but the smartest drivers got away.  I love the moves these cars made and the restpect they had for there friends even thou the situation they were in werent all good.  True friends stick together.  Iam looking foward to the next movie./
2014-01-07	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	As the series progressed it was nice to go back and view the first one all over again.  GREAT MOVIE!!!!
2002-08-01	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Fast and the Furious delivers exactly what the previews promised... a fun to watch movie with great special effects.  The digital surround sound makes you feel like you're in the movie.  No, the plot isn't superb, but no one actually watched this movie for the drama.
2006-05-19	1.0	5	18	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I saw this movie yesterday thinking it'd be exciting. I sure am glad that I survived after watching this terrible excuse for a movie. There's no story line, the acting is pathetic, whoever gave Vin Diesel the idea that he can act. Like an earlier reviewer observes it's about who's dumber the guys who made this movie or the ones who gave it a good review!
2008-04-18	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This a fun movie for anyone who enjoys car racing and the import tuner culture. While there is some misinformation and some of the lines are very cheesy, the movie is still fun and by far the best in the F&F series. The HD-DVD version looks stunning and the audio is also excellent. A "guilty pleasure" as some other reviewers have stated and I have to agree.
2007-06-13	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I remember watching the trailer of "The Fast and the Furious" in cinemas. After watching the trailer I decided it maybe a decent enough movie, with plenty of thrilling car chases through huge cities kind of like "The Italian Job" and "The Driver" style... but I was so mistaken. This movie is the bomb. I believe that the only reason that all these people are doggin it is because they are envious. There is no way in this world that any of them could have done what these actors and actresses have done to make this movie come to life,Paul Walker (The Skulls) plays a bland blond cop who infiltrates a seedy crew led by Vin Diesel (who has in fact, done much better work in films as "Saving Private Ryan" and "Boiler Room"). This group includes his sister (Jordana Brewster) and his tomboy girlfriend (Michelle Rodriguez). Their M.O. is knocking over semi's filled with electronic equipment.This movie really hits home with the casting and dialogue, the whole movie has a feel like they just set the camera down in the middle of the street racing scene and every line feels improvised. (Which I found out on the DVD that many of the lines were). it raises itself just above the typical "Teen" movie but still keeps true to that youthful genre. I hated cars before I saw this movie, I never thought anything about racing or about cars in general. If you're planning on buying a couple of movies any time soon then "The Fast and The Furious" should be one of them. Oh yeah, and it doesn't matter if you win by an inch or a mile, winning IS winning.
2002-01-24	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you like fast cars,undercover cops, macho (and i mean really macho) guys) this is your movie.No need to buy it you can allways rent it.
2002-01-16	1.0	5	9	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	First of all, don't expect any kind of realism from this movie.  I was dumbfounded when the main characters FLOORBOARDS came out of his passenger side when he used his nitrous boost.  Next scene he picks up someone who was running from the cops, no problem.Each of the &quot;underground street races&quot; have about 10,000 to 20,000 spectators (you can see them flying by the whole time, even when the speedo is reading 160mph... yeah sure), and yet none of them get caught by the cops when they do finally show up (after the race is over, of course).Honestly, I stopped this movie before it was over.  The acting in the movie is terrible, and the cars were little more than import tuners with a bunch of plastic ground effects and lowered suspension.  The story has been done time and time again, if you want to see an underground cop movie, at least watch one of the originals in this cheesy genre like Point Break, or Terminal Velocity.Do yourself a favor, use your time for something more desireable, like getting your teeth drilled at the dentist.
2002-02-13	3.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	"The Fast and Furious" is another typical look on deep-cover cops that investigate speed demons.  The film is pretty much "Point Break" on wheels.  And then and there is when I become confused and Disaipointed with the silly plot.Paul Walker plays Brian, a hunky and adventurous speedster, who is also, a undercover cop.  He seem mysterious about a cute girl, Mia (Jordana Brewster) and her shady, order-giving brother, Dom (Vin Diesel).  It turns out to be that Dom is a leader of a street racing gang, bent on money and their half-ass obbession with "Nos". Brian already has a bone to pick with the gang's thug, Vince, and the ability to be "accepted" into this gang, by street racing Dom and his hot, red, suited up Mustang 3-4X.  He loses, of course. Brian ended up beting on the race with his car's pink slip instead of money.  After a shoot out between a rival motorcycle gang, lead by Johnny Tran (Rick Yune), Brian's car is ruined...but he gains respect from Dom, after he rescued him from the cops.  It is then we find out that Brian is really a cop, working undercover to solve a case, involing Road Warriors whom steal contriband from semi-wheeled trucks.  The rest of the film is about tust, loyalty and of course, action."Fast and Furious" Never ceases to slow down.  The plot moves too fast (no pun intended) and the characters never seem to develop, besides Diesel's character, in a suposively dramatic sequence when he talks to Brian about his father's doom and his violent past.  Most music fans (including me) will be disaipointed by how rapper Ja Rule is only in the film for less than 10-minutes and not even his character (who seems not too far from what he may be like in Real Life) is fully developed; heck, his character isn't even apart of the story, by far.  The only thing that will get people to see this movie is (of course) the fast cars.  Why don't you just watch NASCAR???
2004-09-12	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	"The Fast And The Furious" is obviously a guilty pleasure. The movie has amazing cars, attractive women (Michelle Rodriguez, Jordana Brewster), corny dialogues, summer movie visual stunts, bad actors (Vin Diesel) and a MTV2 movie soundtrack. But the funny thing is that the movie works despite all that (or perhaps because all that)."The Fast And The Furious" is an amusing movie because the director and cast never pretended to be part of a groundbreaking film, they knew that they were filming a popcorn movie, so they enjoyed the whole process, and the result is evident, "The Fast And The Furious" is an entertaining movie.Of course, this kind of trick only works once, but Hollywood doesn't care, the studios love to repeat successful formulas, even if they know that they are going to release a bad movie, they know also that it's going to do well in the box office. So Hollywood made a sequel, "2 Fast 2 Furious", but obviously that movie is just average or below average. This kind of formulas (cars + visual effects + attractive women) only work once.Anyway, "The Fast And The Furious" is an amusing, entertaining film. Rent it first, and if you don't like it that much, at least you will have a good time for two hours.
2002-01-04	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is my favorite race movie the stunts were done great the special effects were phenominal and the cars were real cars you would find out on the street.
2002-12-29	1.0	1	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I (not the typical teenager) hated this movie - its true it has some good points but the majority of it was either unrealistic or just pointless. when i saw this movie in the theater i saw nothing but people with little rice burners think that its cool because it had their import car scene with some hot girls. this is a complete load of ****. and from a standpoint of realism there is no way a little toyota supra can keep up with a blown 1970 Charger (yes it was a 1970 becuase i guess im the only one who knows my cars) unrealistic again was the race scene near the beginning - that never happens here in LA.  the only good thing i can think of this movie is the cars - but to compare them the way they did is horrible - i feel that a better theme would have been domestic muscle cars against the thriving import cars - the way it is in real life ----  to compare the two would prove the muscle cars would be dominant...  (my POV is bias becuase i own a 1968 dodge charger) but...  i havent been beeten by a honda yet :)
2014-07-10	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	5 *
2005-08-06	4.0	0	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is one of the best movies I've ever seen! There's lots of fighting and car racing, many scenes of suspenseful music, some funny parts, and this is one of the few PG-13s with the "F bomb" in it. Also, there is a ton of good acting and there are many scenes that teenagers and adults would get a kick out of, as well. Vin Diesel, who is one of my favorite actors of all time, does very well here and is cool as always. This movie is great, and I highly recommend it to everyone.
2001-06-22	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	i love Vin Diesel, I love Paul Walker, and I love Michelle Rodriguez, but that's not the only reason i loved this movie. The action scenes will have your heart pumping, the cars will leave you wishing you had a honda, and the illegal street racing will make ya wanna go watch the live version in your home town. Not to mention ladies, Vin diesel has a body, and a voice to die for! i've seen it 3 times, and i'm going back!
2001-07-05	3.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	dude this movie was the greatest movie ever if u haven't seen it u better get ur butt out there and see this movie vin diesel and paul walker r the hottest guys ever and they r soooooo great in this movie and so r all the actors and actress' and if u think it's just a guy movie u r totally wrong me and my female friends went to see it and we all thought it was the best movie!! it so exciting theres always somthin happening it's definitly not boring!! this is definitly the best movie of this summer!! so u better go see it!!
2002-08-29	5.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I actually saw XXX before I saw The Fast and the Furious.  The main reason I watched it was Vin Diesel.  Okay, so he lacks some acting skills, but he has amazing screen presence.  The plot is almost identical to Point Break, Paul Walker sounds like Keanu Reeves twin brother.  I've only owned this movie a few weeks but I already have it memorized.  The only disappointing actor in this film is Michelle Rodriguez.  Is her only facial expression to scowl and wear her sunglasses on her nose?  She was not a believable love match for Dominic.  Either way, the car scenes were enjoyable, but quite unbelievable.  Whenever I'm feeling not up to par I just pop this movie in and I lose myself in 2 hours of pure entertainment.  I LOVE VIN DIESEL
2013-03-26	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	got here really quick and plays great love this movie will do bussness with this person again in the future.
2001-07-20	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	i have watched fast and the furoius and i have to say it is my favorite movie. it is very good and t is so similar to life in my opinion that it just blows you away. i havent never done any reviews before but then agin i havent watched but a couple of movies that i thought were this good. i reccomend everyome take the time to watch this trust me it is worth the money. i am going to  buy it. i reaaaally love this movie and hope yall will take my advice and watch it, its worth it.
2001-11-27	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Get in, fasten your seatbelt and get ready for one exhilirating ride. The Fast and the Furious places you in the middle of several street race settings where you find yourself cheering on the drivers as they test their nitrous oxide and other speed booting mechanisms. As a female, I have a hard time getting involved in car movies but this is one I waited in lines for at the theater and I know without a doubt tha I'll makea soecial trip out on January 2nd just to purchase the DVD.
2002-03-17	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Paul Walker is an undercover cop who gets too involved in the underground world of racing.  Vin Diesel is the criminal he eventually befriends.  Not much plot-wise, and there aren't nearly enough chases or races to make up for the incredibly slacking pace and overdone, headache-inducing visuals.  The truck-siege in the climax is obviously inspired by the similar setpiece in The Road Warrior, but doesn't compare in terms of sheer excitement (or even in size, scope, and length).  Walker took a far more enjoyable trip in Joy Ride.
2014-03-19	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The fast and the furious is fast pace and action is on your seat holding your breathe type of movies.
2013-05-26	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	You don't have to be interested in &#34;tuners&#34; to appreciate the fast-paced action and excitement in the original film that spawned the &#34;Fast and Furious&#34; string of movies. AS in most movie series, the original is the best.  The Blu-ray version provides wonderful detail and the action is non-stop.
2001-09-24	3.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Surprisingly, I enjoyed this film. I really wasn't looking forward to paying $8 to see yet ANOTHER testosterone-filled racing movie (and I actually like most &quot;guy&quot; flicks), but it was a night away from home with my friends, so I figured why not! Although the plot wasn't too original, it wasn't too weak, either, and the some of the characters were quite marvelous.For a more picky critic, who seems to want to get the best movie experience ever, every time he or she goes to the cinema, this movie will probably get a bad rap. It's not really as bad, however, as the critics led the general public, to believe. Vin Deisel and Paul Walker have a great chemistry together, a real challenging atmosphere. Very cool.Worth a watch.
2001-10-12	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was different, kept my attention and had a great sound track!!! I liked it!!!
2013-10-29	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Very good movie. Cant wait till number 6 comes out on bluray. And the complete collection. As a bonud they need to include the original .
2013-06-16	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	One of my favorite popcorn flips. Enjoy &#128515;. I watched on ipad and flawless picture and found. Rent it or buy it mow
2014-01-03	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	loved this movie great action!!!!! its better to watch in order though!!!!!!  hadnt  watched before but now own them all
2002-05-12	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast &amp; The Furious is a great movie to own. When you're having a party of have guests over just take it out and put it on when the party starts to be a drag. I highly reccomend this movie although the special features on the DVD are dissapointing they're pretty much useless after you look at them for the first time. Don't expect to be impressed by the special features. Very good movie though if you liked it this is a movie you'll probably watch more than just a few times.
2014-03-03	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Awesome love the series....great cast and cars are awesome And it is crazy that if I do this on my phone I have yo put all this in here
2001-07-05	5.0	3	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I have so far seen this movie 5 times and am goin to see it again possibly friday or saturday. My goal is to see it at least 10 times. Ive been waiting over a year for this movie to come out and have not been disappointed. Its the best movie of the year. Now i have 2 fave movies. The other one bein Pitch Black. What do these movies have in common? VIN DIESEL! Yes the best actor of all times and the hottest. But even if Vin wasnt in this movie id give it great reviews. Its that good. Its not just a guy movie for whoever might say so. I love the cars their way hot and the guys are cool and fine off their.. For anyone who aint seen this movie has got to go see it. Ive taken two friends to see it both said its the best. One of them went to see it with me twice and shes gonna go see it again bringin her sis a Vin fan to see it this time. We all agree its our fave movie. I cant wait for the DVD oh man the extra scenes thatll be on it...Its totally cool. I will have to agree the soundtrack though good is [bad]. I bought the soundtrack a few minutes b4 i watched the movie so i didnt get to listen to it but then i watched the movie and listened to all the cool techno and was way hiped to listen to my soundtrack. Imagine my disappointment when none of those songs i wanted to hear were on the soundtrack. Nothin but rap. I wanted all that great techno. Ive watched the movie all the way through even the end scene after the credits (WATCH THE END SCENE AFTER THE CREDITS) PPl always miss that. Well b4 it theres the songs that are on the track. Well most of the songs that they show arent on the soundtrack. Ive tried to memorize them but kinna hard to remember the songs and artists after seein Vin that last time in Baja, Mexico.  But i can tell you my fave songs on the movie (that arent on the track) are the 'Watch your back' song where Vince and Brian get in a fight and Dom breaks it up. And the song they play at race wars when Brian tells Mia hes a cop. Ill wait though but i want those songs. Okay so yall get the idea its the best movie. Keep up with Vin Diesel and his movies hes a great actor and very [hot]. Watch TF&TF
2009-09-04	5.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Even though I've seen this many, many times, seeing it on Blu-ray was like seeing it for the first time.  All the Fast and Furious movies are prime examples of awesome Blu-ray can look and sound.  The audio is just ridiculous on this movie.  Really really loud and clean.  Having a good home-theatre system helps too.  I highly recommend Definitive Technolgy bipolar speakers, available at Amazon.
2002-02-22	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is definitly my favorite movie! It is action packed and has a little humor in it as well. If you are into cars, then this movie is like heaven for you.This movie is basically based on trust and illegal street-racing. The technology in these cars are unbelieveable, and the stunts that are performed are mind-boggling.I have never seen so much "interesting" action in one scene in my life. I saw this movie twice in the theaters, and I bought the DVD the first day.Some of these cars would be anyone's dream car, but each car gets better than the previous. Whether it's the Green Eclipse or the Honda Civics.This movie is about an undercover cop who joins a racing team in order to find out who has been robbing tractor-trailers for their electronics...Overall, the plot is a 3 but the action/special effects are a 5+. The cars in this movie are some of the best I've ever seen in my life. I think that this movie is more for the younger crowd, it appeals to us more than adults.
2002-02-22	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is definitly my favorite movie! It is action packed and has a little humor in it as well. If you are into cars, then this movie is like heaven for you.This movie is basically based on trust and illegal street-racing. The technology in these cars are unbelieveable, and the stunts that are performed are mind-boggling.I have never seen so much &quot;interesting&quot; action in one scene in my life. I saw this movie twice in the theaters, and I bought the DVD the first day.Some of these cars would be anyone's dream car, but each car gets better than the previous. Whether it's the Green Eclipse or the Honda Civics.This movie is about an undercover cop who joins a racing team in order to find out who has been robbing tractor-trailers for their electronics. Eventually, they find out that it's Vin Diesel's crew, but Scott Walker lets Vin go free because of the friendship that they have developed. Vin, however wants none of Scott at the end, because of his betrayal.Overall, the plot is a 3 but the action/special effects are a 5+. The cars in this movie are some of the best I've ever seen in my life. I think that this movie is more for the younger crowd, it appeals to us more than adults.
2002-03-08	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is definitly my favorite movie! It is action packed and has a little humor in it as well. If you are into cars, then this movie is like heaven for you.This movie is basically based on trust and illegal street-racing. The technology in these cars are unbelieveable, and the stunts that are performed are mind-boggling.I have never seen so much &quot;interesting&quot; action in one scene in my life. I saw this movie twice in the theaters, and I bought the DVD the first day.Some of these cars would be anyone's dream car, but each car gets better than the previous. Whether it's the Green Eclipse or the Honda Civics.This movie is about an undercover cop who joins a racing team in order to find out who has been robbing tractor-trailers for their electronics...Overall, the plot is a 3 but the action/special effects are a 5+. The cars in this movie are some of the best I've ever seen in my life. I think that this movie is more for the younger crowd, it appeals to us more than adults.
2014-03-14	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Great movie. A lot of action and suspense. The cars are out of this world and creative. I would watch it again.
2002-04-05	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	With much chagrin, I was forced to view this cavalcade of absurdity with my straight friends. Being a movie buff, and a fan of Paul Walker and Van Diesel (grrrrowl!) I thought I would admit defeat and give in.This is the WORST movie I have ever seen, and yes, I DID see Armageddon.The plot is...well, there is no plot. But if there is, it's dumbed down for an audience of lowbrows. Is this what 100 years of filmmaking has led up to? Oy guvalt.To play devil's advocate tho, I was upset that this movie wasn't nominated for any animation Oscars, since primarily all the car chase sequences aren't even REAL.
2011-08-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A lot can be said for the ridiculousness that surrounds `The Fast and the Furious' or the fact that Paul Walker may possibly be the worst `successful' actor of all time, but at the end of the day there is no denying that every calibrated inch of this film is high octane fun and that accounts for a lot.  Sure, it isn't smart cinema and it certainly has its fair share of flaws but those are forgivable flaws thanks to the dripping wet charisma and brute machismo that explodes in every scene.  Even the chicks exude that tough kind of sexy that makes a man smile.  This is movies made for teenage boys looking for an adrenaline rush, and `The Fast and the Furious' succeeds on all levels there.  From the fast cars to the big muscles to the tiny framed, scantily clad women; this film has it all and then some.  The general plot surrounding an undercover cop, some highway thieves and drag racing feuds is ultimately farfetched and unintentionally funny, but like I said, it doesn't matter.  Vin Diesel is the manliest of men, Paul Walker is cool even if he can't act, Jordana Brewster is an overload of gorgeous and Michelle Rodriguez can bully me around anyday.  Oh yeah, and those cars are pretty awesome too.  Five stars for sure!  I have never had more fun in a theater (yes, this came out when I was the ideal target age) and I can honestly watch this film on loop for days and never get tired of it.  It's a shame they wore out their welcome with this franchise, and yet even as the films get dumber and dumber they are all still so entertaining (sort of).
2001-07-17	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I seen this movie 3 times now and I [like it] every time the 3 guys and letty pull up to the store.  beautiful, beautiful movie!
2002-08-06	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The director captures the cars in this movie in some enjoyable high-speed action.  Fast, tricked-out cars are everywhere in this movie.  However, the screenplay and acting are absent.  If you are into street racing, this is a fun film to watch.  It could be to street racing what Quadrophenia is to fans of Italian motor scooters.  If you aren't really into fast cars and racing, this movie is not of any interest.  If you follow what little plot there is, you will be hoping that Brian and Dom both die a deserved death by the time they are doing their last race.
2013-12-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I like the entire Fast and the Furious series.  It won't be the same now that Paul Walker is gone.
2001-10-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Great Movie.  Total action with tons of fast cars.  A must see for every fan of the import car scene!
2001-10-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and The Furious, is the ultimate movie. With Paul Walkers sexy voice and his intelleget acting skills it makes it the best movie of all times. The best part of the movie for me would of been when all the cars lined up on the street. Everyone should see this movie as it is not just a chick flick!
2013-03-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Omg the digital copy was still good , that's why am so happy . I have seen this movie so many times .
2003-09-19	1.0	2	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I was really looking forward to seeing this movie too ! A few fast cars and some of the other mindless trappings that usually accompany this type of action film can make for a cool diversion. Unfortunately, the story line is absurd and the dialogue is unintentionally laughable. As for the action scenes, the 1/4 mile drag races last more than a minute which about the time it would take a fast runner to complete the distance. This movie disappoints across the board...
2013-12-01	5.0	9	12	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Rest in peace, Paul Walker.You were taken from us too early. To those who knew you, you were a charismatic, down-to-earth, friendly guy; you made an indelible impression on those you met. To the millions who know you from movies, you were a cool, funny, intense actor with a winning smile.You may not have been the most versatile or talented of actors, but you were always the heart and soul of your movies. You were the emotional core of the Fast and Furious franchise, the everyman in Eight Below, the riveting protagonist of Running Scared.You gave to charity, you posed for pictures, you were a role model for fans. You were a great guy who never got caught up in the celebrity image. The action world will never be the same without you. Yours is a hole that can never be filled.We miss you, Paul. Our prayers to your wife and daughter.Paul Walker (1973 - 2013).
2001-08-05	5.0	25	31	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Look.  I know that most who've seen this movie (especially the teeenage boys) will automatically tell you "Yea man!  It rocked!  It's the best movie ever!"Personally, I'm a tunerhead.  I love suped up cars, and the whole street racing scene.  I can't say how this movie can relate to the real midnight street racers, but I'm sure it's been Hollywooded up enough to go overboard a little.But, I was expecting to see terrible acting, a bad script, a bad plot, but cool cars.  In reality, the acting is very well done.  The script isn't corny, the plot is entertaining, and, well...the cars speak for themselves.  (Vin Diesel's Mazda RX7 in the movie just went up for bid on Ebay!)  This movie, whether you're into cars, or not, is a must-see.  My friends who get bored even when I mention cars and racing still loved the movie for its other aspects.  I thought it was awesome, but, hey, to each his own.  Why don't you go and see it to check it out?
2002-04-19	3.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Okay, you should know this isn't going to be Hamlet;  or Chinatown or Citizen Kane or whatever.  This is going to be simple adrenal kickay action about hot cars &amp;  hot chicks and that's about it!  On that level, this does not disappoint.So, you get a BS story with some lightly sketched characters in a  hyper-kinetic flick (do they make any other kind anymore?); directed &amp; edited with the expected high energy and razzle dazzle techniques; some excellent stunt work done with some super hot cars driven by young hunks and babes.As he proved in Pitch Black, Vin Diesel is a real screen presence; and hot cars, illegal drag races, and young studs &amp; their honeys are as American as Apple Pie and Rebel Without a Cause.  Fast, simple, and dumb...it's about the jolt, man!  Taken at that, s'okay.
2013-06-17	1.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I have ordered DVDs from Amazon for years and never had a problem, but as soon as I ordered this series, I had a problem. This single DVD of the original FF movie was defective as well. So, I have all of the other 4 movies but not the original.
2006-03-31	5.0	2	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	excellent. . . ! ! !  it is the best thing. . . !  you buy good. . !
2013-05-28	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie has always been a favorite. I liked the team dynamics and characters. I liked that the &#34;heroes&#34; of the movie weren't so clean and white - they have records and pasts. I liked that our main hero (Paul Walker) didn't really get the girl in the end. I really liked that strong female characters here.Packaging and shipping were great - no problems there.
2002-10-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I have seen this movie now about 15 times, and never got bored. Again and again I could see this guys and girls speeding to the limit. Just don't let us see everthing so serious, it's a nice movie with some items in it they doesn't fit to reality, but hey, what the f...,it's just a game. Let them play. Maybe I like them so much because I am a speedfreak too, however this movie has fun and action and it's about friends hanging out together, getting a peace of their freedom.
2001-07-16	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The actors in this movie are the new stars of the 2000+ era.  This movie will only boost their careers because this was a very enjoyable movie to watch.  This movie will go over well with young men especially.  The plot of the movie isn't anything spectacular, but it's focus on suped up fast cars, young attitude and dare devil stunts will leave you hanging on the edge of your seat.  I felt at many times I watching Point Break (Keanu Reeves) because of the uncanny similarites in plot line this movie had to Point Break.  All you need to do is replace the surf boards with fast cars and you have Fast and the Furious.  But because I highly enjoyed Point Break, I thought it was okay this time around.  Great movie, great fun.
2002-03-21	1.0	8	14	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Let me sum up the movie thusly:1. We have a drinking game that my friends and I do. Every time you see a NOS sticker or someone says &quot;NOS&quot;, you drink. I doubt you'll make it halfway thru the movie.2. For cars doing 10 second 1/4 miles, a 1/4 mile race takes like 2 minutes.3. If you blow your engine up and destroy the rings and such, let it rest for a few minutes. It'll be good as new and be able to run from the police in about 5 minutes time. It just needed to catch it's breath.4. If you are trying to carjack a semi, the driver will be considerate enough for you to fire a grappling hook thru his windshield then match your speed so you can come across the line and into the cab. He would never be so inconsiderate as to swerve or hit his brakes or something. That would just be rude.5. When building up a 2JZ engine in a Supra, it's a simple matter to overnight performance parts from Japan. Ummm...I can't overnight performance parts from Japan! And I LIVE in Japan!I could go on and on but you kinda get the point. If you know nothing about tuning cars and are willing to totally suspend belief in reality for a few hours, by all means go see this movie. The soundtrack is quite good. If you do a lot of car tuning, however, be prepared to cringe and be prepared for everyone and their dog to ask you if you have NOS in your car.Oh and don't worry if the floorboard of your car falls off in the middle of one of those 2 minute quarter miles. That's a common occurance. We just pick em back up and move on. Now that I think about it, that must be how his car was able to run from the police after blowing the engine up. He must've been Flintstoning it.
2013-12-28	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	My grandson watched this with me and it was very exciting.....I love being able to watch movies that are appropriate with all my grandkids'
2014-01-16	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Movie arrived in perfect condition. My husband loves this series. I am usually doing something else while he watches his movies.
2002-04-17	2.0	2	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The hype finally got to me and I rented &quot;the fast and the furious' to see if it was any good.  I got mixed reviews from all around so I figured seeing it for myself was the only way to go.  And all I can say is: What a waste of a rental.  The only thing I enjoyed about this movie was, of course, the cars.  They were all very nice and I suppose that's where the producers spent all the money for the film because it certainly wasn't on obtaining a good script.  The movie does show some promise but that falls apart when scenes are short and cut together.  The plot came together too quickly and just didn't give you much.  It was like &quot;An under cover cop wastes a lot of money driving cool cars trying to find an armed thief.&quot;  And as always, he gets a little too close to the enemy and he his torn between his job and his emotions and ultimately he finds a way to satisfy both.It just left you completely empty.  You lost the money for renting (or buying), you wasted your time, and the hype was false.Two stars for the Racing Scenes and nice cars.  But not really worth the buy or the viewing other than that.
2002-03-09	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	In the DVD extra features the director talks about the basis for this film, an article on street racing - on the sub-culture of men and women who live for speed and souped-up cars.  He talks of how he and the producers were fascinated by this sub-culture.  Why then did they make a pointless, appallingly written, admittedly technically deft piece of drivel?  If they were fascinated by this world, why didn't they make a film about the depths and details of the people inhabiting it, rather than a drab rehash of every bad undercover cop movie we have ever seen?  There were no characters, simply puppets at the service of the lame plot.  The police scenes were particularly stupid.  And I haven't seen a film in years where you could virtually hear the director call "Action" before every scene.  There was no truth, simply a bunch of actors moving into frame and saying their lines on command.  The film also contains some of the least convincing extras acting I have ever seen.  And very bad over-dubbing for extras rhubard mumbling.  The writing hit the biggest lows in every scene where the characters supposedly opened up.  Vin Diesel's BIG speech about Dad dying was like a laughably bad acting class audition speech.  Get the idea I hated this movie?  Too right I did.  And how depressing that it actually made money.  I was also appalled in the extra-features featurette about censorship to watch the director and editor quibble about a few frames of blood.  Okay to show characters of total moral bankcruptcy as supposedly cool and emulatable dudes, but perish the thought that we should see a few frames of blood.  This film is a classic example of the warped values of the Hollywood dream factory.
2005-06-12	2.0	3	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious stars Paul Walker and Vin Diesel as a cop and criminal who form a friendship of sorts in the underground world of street racing.There isn't much of a plot to speak of.  Brian O'Conner (Walker) plays a cop who is going undercover to investigate a series of highway robberies carried out by souped-up Honda Civic drivers armed with little more than a harpoon and a tranquilizer gun.  Dominick Toretto (Diesel) is the ringleader of a particularly suspicious gang of misfits, even though Brian doesn't really believe that Toretto is the man responsible.With this simple setup, the movie takes us on a thrill ride of one car chase after another.  The one thing I can give this movie credit for is it's attention to a world that hasn't been covered by many other movies.  Even though I don't, for a minute, believe that hundreds of people can show up and race in the streets of Los Angeles without the cops showing up right away, once you get over this little problem, the setting is somewhat convincing.One other plot twist is the ongoing rivalry between Toretto and  Johnny Tran, a ruthless Asian gang leader who controls portions of the city.  Johnny is also a suspect in the hijacks.The only real common sense in the movie comes from O'Conner's superiors who are in the movie only to give a voice to the audience members who are saying "You're a cop!  Arrest somebody!"  O'Conner feels that all they have is circumstantial evidence, however, and not enough to convict Toretto or anyone else.  Also, he's sort of got a crush on Toretto's sister and nothing breaks up a quick romance like a girl finding out your life is one big lie and you're out to send her brother to prison.  Ahh, the conflict!One other aspect of the movie is the attention paid to the "tricked out" cars, of which there are plenty.  Any amateur gearheads out there who like working on their cars might get a kick out of seeing these hopped up machines.  Personally, I fail to see the real value of sinking $10k-$20k into a Honda Civic, when you could get yourself a REAL sports car for much less money.At the end, the movie really amounts to basically the equivalent of sniffing gasoline.  Yeah, it's a cheap thrill and there are a lot of cool colors and flashes of light, but when you're done you feel slightly confused and repeat exposure to this kind of film will probably make you dumber in the long run.
2002-04-04	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is probally one of the greatest car movies ever made. It was much better than that total nonsense &quot;Driven.&quot;Most people say that this movie was good but had horrible acting (mainly critics). But I found that the acting in this movie was really great. Paul Walker was really good and so was Vin Diesel who was a new comer at the time. The cars in  this movie looked so amazing. Especially that Mitubishi Eclipse that Paul drove for the first part of the movie. If I was rich I would definitley buy that car for sure. The Toyota Supra that Paul drove after the Eclipse blew up, Also looked real good and I heard that acually had like 700hp in it too.  The only reason I gave it 4 stars is because I found the camera angles on the cars racing, they kept changing and I could never get a good look at the cars driving at full speed.Anyway go buy this DVD or VHS, it is really good. You won't be disappointed
2001-08-05	3.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	i love this movie it is a a a a i cant tell you in words . i think this is a good movie but it has worst skirp like quites like (i live my life a 2/4 mile at a time that [...].  but i love cars a nisson going 140 mph is year going event but you can say that i am a litte tuff on movies. i was dissapointed on this movie i tought it was going to be more fun but if is boring un tell you see cars going 1400 down down town l.a its ok. bottem line it iis a fast movie buy it on vhs and fast over the dumm parts!!!!!!!
2013-08-07	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	One of my favorite movies of my teenage years. Looks great in HD and sounds awesome.Buying on Amazon instant worked like a charm.
2001-10-30	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Best movie of 2001 hands down, buy it as soon as it comes out, but leave a copy for me.  This is the best edge of your seat speaker busting heart pounding sexy thriller of the year, buy it buy it buy it, and buy one for each of your friends too!
2013-06-18	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Quality of movie a little on the dark side.  Not really sure if this isn't a copy.  Movie skipped in two places, which it should not do the first time watching it.
2002-01-28	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	this is a great movie if you are under 25.  it has everything teens look for in the movie. (and paul walker's pretty cute) this movie is worth your time, even if you just rent it.  i actually learned something about cars, being a teenage female, i know nothing about cars or racing but learned a little from the movie.  and ja rule's small part was pretty cool.
2013-01-08	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I like it, this is a very good movie and great quality. The hd is worth is it. Great Picture too.
2001-12-18	4.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I have seen the fast and the furious multiple times.  It is a good movie.  I am here to just say that the cars are sweet, but american muscle would smoke them.  The 650 hp supra would get toasted by 1300 hp mustangs.  Like the saying go'sThere is no replacement for displacement.
2014-01-15	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This to was also part of the anniversary present for my hubby and he is very pleased with the movie.
2006-09-14	3.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I just saw this for the first time, and I have to admit that I like it.  The plot is basically a ripoff of the 1991 movie Point Break, with street racing substituted for surfing.  It seems someone is robbing trucks filled with all sorts of electronic goodies Road Warrior style.  The police send some young stud under cover (Paul Walker) because it must be someone in the street racing world.  Our young hero must infiltrate this world and does so by sucking up to LA's king of street racing (Vin Diesel).  The movie is filled with car races and chases that are very well done, although having lived in LA I seem to remember a lot of traffic and an occasional red light where as in this movie neither seems to exist.  The movie was enough fun that I was able to cruise with the illusion through out and overlook a few things that didn't make sense (like why didn't the truck drivers just break?).  If you cruise with it and don't think too much, you will find this is a decent action flick with some flashy cars and some great race scenes.
2013-02-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I love this movie. Paul and Vin are amazing and I love the characters. This is BY far one of the best movies I have ever seen.
2013-06-07	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This was a great movie and always will be. I think it both interesting and creative how they have spun from this movie to create other equally great films. Amazing story line and amazing writers.
2001-07-30	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was great.  I thought since it was all about cars that I wouldnt like it. Anyone would like this movie. It has romance and suspense.  Man its great. Just be prepared for your husband or boyfriend to want a car just like one that is on the movie. Just don't let him spend 80,000 like they did. NOS is what I want for my next car.  This is a must see!!!  I will get it on DVD when it comes out.
2013-12-27	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Delivered as expected and the product is solid in that it entertains. The item matches the product description very well and this is one of the top choices in the movie market. Witness the beginning of a behemoth movie franchise.
2014-01-16	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This product met my expectations because the product was in excellent condition. That is why I gave it 5 Stars.
2001-08-28	5.0	3	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	It's a funny thing to see how America can make a young beginning actor, a star at a point in his carrer crucial enough,but unbelievable.But of course I speak of newcomer Vin Diesel,that even after a low-grossing sci-fi debut film like PITCH BLACK,walked on water throughout this unmatchable flick that portrays the true 'youth' related action where bad is good.At the side of another newcomer Paul Walker,Diesel stars as a troubled master car-racer that even though following his tough-guy methods,deep inside stands as a family man in relation of his close appreciation to his sister,as seen in regards throughout the film towards Walker's character: &quot;YOU BRAKE HER HEART-I BRAKE YOUR NECK&quot;.On the other hand,Walker's character a more hidden 'persona' stands as the film's major riddle assisting Diesel's dark secret that brings out the full set of action the film promises at it's 'bullet' climax.With fights and speed chases as well as a smartly written script,&quot;FURIOUS&quot; offers you not just a film but an opinion,that in comparison to it's 'hero' characters tells you that when there's action you don't get locked and sealed in goodwill,you get FAST and FURIOUS.
2001-06-26	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is the best movie I have saw, and I seen alot of movies. Every racing lover should go, your still here? get going and see this movie, get going!
2002-02-17	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Hot Chicks and Cool Cars!! A must for ALL guys!
2003-02-17	1.0	3	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Hollywood has reached an all time low with this movie.  Even the fact that I'm female (i know there are others out there like me too) even I had to laugh at this movie.  First it doesn't show the real street racing.  Every person had their cars picture perfect and what not.  You go out here on the East Coast, you got all kinds whether its stock, sleeper, ricey or whatever.  Nobody's get together is like that.  Second, the information was wrong.  I laughed so many times at the almost humilating wrongness of the movie.  Almost makes me embarressed to drive a Honda (which i do, and i'm proud).  I saw this movie once and not because I wanted to, and I strongly recommend the real tuners and racers out there to just skip this movie and F &amp; F 2 all together.  except for Vin Diesel.  If he wasn't in it, I would have turned it off after I saw Brian shifting 6-7 times in a 5 speed eclipse.  i think i'm gonna be sick now.
2001-05-19	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is the must see movie this summer, DO NOT miss this one. This movie will have some of the BEST racing scenes ever. If you love import racing then make sure you see this movie.
2002-02-03	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious may not win any awards, but it is a good movie if all you want is a diversion fron the "real world."  The movie has awesome cars, sexy stars, and action.  A popcorn flick, that's great for anyone.  This movie has no real actual plot, but it fufills it's purpose of being an action movie that's easy on the mind.  Just watch it for a fun time.
2001-07-06	5.0	6	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I originally just wanted to see this movie because Vin Diesel was in it and I have been a fan of his for a long time, for obvious reasons. But after seeing the movie I have become a lot more interested in cars and engines. As a girl, I loved the fact that Michelle Rodriguez was letin on all the racing action right along with the boys. I LOVED the Supra and the Dodge Charger at the end was the baddest car I've ever seen. If you love cars and love a great movie, you have to go see this!
2002-03-30	5.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I think &quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; is the best film all over the world.It is full of with tuning cars, good girl( like Joranda Brewster). So it is fantastic.
2001-07-17	5.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you haven't seen this movie and you like cars, women, and fast action, then what are you waiting for? The Fast and The Furious is the summer movie you can't miss. Whether you participate in the import craze, race in NOPI, tune your car and know what nitrous oxide, turbochargers, low-profile tires, chrome rims, perfromance exhausts, cold-air intakes, hot paint jobs,unique graphics, custom interiors and exteriors mean to a hardcore tuner, or simply want to see a sweet movie that everyone is talking about than this movie is for you. The cast was amazing and I think the movie portrayed the import scene well. The racing scenes will really bring you to your feet and the sound of the modified cars revving their engines will make you want more.This movie surpassed my own even my own predictions for it. Once again finally!... this movie wil make you go out and buy an import to modify and race...the exitement can't be written in this review so go see it!!!Hey guys, the import seen is blowing up...now its bigger than ever....thanks Cohen.
2001-07-27	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	okay so here it goes...  this movie was great. i was grounded right before the movie came out so i didn't get to go see it for over two weeks. you know how you want to go see something sooo bad that you work it up in your head to be so good. well i worked it up and i was exactly how i expected it to be, with the little perks. Paul and Vin look absolutly delectable and i recomend this movie to everyone, even if you are not into cars or vin... haha
2013-12-07	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I have only seen this Fast movie when it first came out in theaters & the second one I just finished (did not enjoy that one).  I really enjoyed this one & thought all of the actors meshed well together.  I will not watch Tokyo Drift (it doesn't have Paul in it) & I hope 4, 5, & 6 are just as good as this one.
2002-02-26	2.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Wow. Who writes the dialogue for this stuff. I'mnearly in a coma and I could throw better wordstogether.Anyway, hey I expected a B movie so I shouldn'tcomplain. It's a great movie to make fun of. Bad acting,bad plot, bad script and standard action. In a ridiculous early scene,this group of racing knuckleheads with their little midget cars that sound like bees, seemingly thousands of them, take over half the city of L.A. to hang out and say stupid things, act cool and gawk at each other. Not one cop in sight? A race takes place between Vin Unleaded and Paul Walker that's seems very unrealistic and cartoonish. I wasn't impressed or entertained by the editing, camerawork or action. Seen it all before big deal.I got a very 80s feel from this movie. And I don't want to feel 80s anymore. Towards the end the action picked up a bit and things got more interesting, but all in all this movie stunk. As I expected. So all is well.
2002-08-12	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Fast and Furious action prevails throughout the entire two hours of The Fast and The Furious. Action packed with a gre soundtrack. You'll love this.
2009-08-12	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Great Movie.Great story LineGreat racesGreat actionMost have for import cars, moded vehicles, muscle cars etc,etc*I own all 4 and I love this one the most out of all 4 and the 4th one 2nd*Buy ut 2DY!
2013-12-10	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Another one I really enjoyed.  My son started me watching these movies.  He started with Fast & Furious 6 and then I had to order all the others.  I love the action pack movies and I really enjoyed this one also.
2006-12-10	5.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The fast and the furious is one of the best movies ever made. Its action packed from start to finnish and has 100's of sick cars. The cast of the fast and the furious are very good and they go great together. Plus since you cant actually race legally you still get to see it which is the next best thing. Dont listen to the other revewers who gave this movie a low ranking...this movie is deffinantly worth the money and you can watch it over and over again without getting bored.
2003-06-19	2.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	There's something to be said about a culture that can release more of a movie than you can shake a stick at. (I believe Halloween I is gearing up for its 5th or 6th DVD release.) Theres even more to be said of the consumers that buy them. Here's an idea... F&F; ver 3.0 Ja Rule edition complete with never before seen vidio and omitting all the documentaries. I started buying DVD's from day one and I remember when there was something special about a "special edition." Heck... I remember when Deleted scenes were actually added back into the movie or you could pick the original theatre or re-edited cut. Those days are over and almost every disk is "special."This "turbocharged edition" was poorly planned and put together, and comes off as one big Mitsubishi commercial (since they spnsor the sequel.) Most disappointing is all the documentary and behind the scenes erased from Version 1. And I mean ALL. The marketing wiz behind this must have thought sequel and disk in the same month and these idiots will buy.The prelude to 2F2F isnt bad, but forgets a key factor in that Brian, our hero, lived in the back of the shop he worked at but does set up the scene. Featured here are the GTO (3000 GT here in the States) and the Eclipse. Perhaps they'd do better to show this instead of those jazzy commercials on TV."All New Movie Experience?" The Multi-angle, Deleted scenes, and behind the scenes footage are only accessible through a re-done "commentary sans Vin Diesel" when an icon appears as are the Multi-angle (basically a behind the scenes alternate shot, even porns have true milti-angle) I love listening to the commentary but to force others who may not to watch an entire movie of voice over to see missing scenes? Some arent even missing, they're actually on the scene ride show-offs. The "And much more" they advertised... um... I must have missed it.Tricking out a Hot Car: Oh, the Lancer Evolution is in the states now and in the sequel... so now we have a Lancer EVO commercial complete with playmate of the year. Sadly she cant even "act" stupid without coming off like shes acting. Don't do this at home (that goes for the playmate too) kids and if you do dont expect to have your car pass for plate tags.The big marketing point is hilarious. A coupon for a free ticket woth less than what you just bought.This version could have been great. If they had taken the original DVD release, add the deleted scenes separately, and then piled on the "tricked out edition extras" it would be worth it. As is it isn't even worth replacing your 1st Gen release... that is unless you're a big fan of MMC.
2002-01-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This film is my favourite film of all times it really appeals to young people actually perhaps under 25, well i'm 16. i mean theres loads of cars with the engine over exaggerated, i didnt actually think about that at the time at the time i just thought wow does this really happen in life ( i know i sounded niave but hey who cares).  Its so unpredictable whats gonna happen next which is very original and inventive, but i guess the title kind of gives it away anyway.After watching this film its not only a guys film but also a girls film too with all the fit guys in it such as Paul Walker.He's gorgeous,a typical and a perfect surfer, with a brilliant body.Which this film is definately worth watching which ever sex you are.
2013-07-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The only thing that's kinda off in this movie is Vin Diesel driving a foreign car - Right! American muscle, baby!!
2013-08-11	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Loved the cars especially the Charger and Vin Diesel and Paul Walker - hot!My husband and I saw this at the theater when it first came out in 2001 and loved it then. We just watched it again and enjoyed it again. Believable - not totally. But it's still a fun movie with great stunts and fast paced action.I bought theFast & Furious: 1-5 Bundle [Blu-ray + Digital Copy + UltraViolet] so hubby and I will be watching the next four in the series soon.
2002-01-18	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Although the storyline is Point Break, it was never meant to be a plot to challenge the brain.  Nobody cares about the storyline - just show us the cars and special effects - just like with "Gone in 60 Seconds".  It's OK to buy a movie because it gives you an adrenaline rush, or it looks and sounds good in your home theater. That's what this movie does on both counts - very well...
2014-04-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I drive American muscle.  This is import tuner glory through and through.  But I love it.  It's pure, unadulterated, guilty pleasure.  Don't go into it wanting to see &#34;Gone with the Wind&#34; or &#34;Wizard of Oz&#34; or &#34;The Godfather&#34;.  It is not classic drama or high class in any stretch.  Start watching this with realistic expectations of a cheesy thrill ride and you will enjoy yourself immensely.
2012-08-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Out of all the crappy sequels none of them can ever lay a hand on the original. A must own!
2004-04-27	1.0	4	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This one is not recommended it is however good but there are to many kids that like this stuff and are stupidly reperforming these stunts the movie just for this should have been rated X and only seen by the mature.It has killed to many and done so much bad.In November of 2003 a kid named Greg Farmhouse saw this movie 10 times and he was with his friend Ryan Lefine and with my friend Shawn MacMelely in the car the 2 in the front died on impact in the car accident with no alcohol to play.And Shawn who was where-ing his seat belt was injured but back to normal quickly so far these kids and any other kids that youpersonally no that were killed in Car crashes boycott this
2002-07-29	1.0	5	9	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A movie clearly made by people who have never driven in a real race, this movie was made so 10 year old boys could watch it and go &quot;cool!&quot; before they go back to sitting in front of the TV and getting fat.  I have met a few adults who liked it but mostly they belong to the can't-get-a-date-live-with-mommy-when-they-are-40 crowd.Sadly Vin Disiel is a good actor, just one who would rather make money than movies.
2001-12-31	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	For those who saw and loved &quot;Gone in 60 Seconds&quot;, you will definately love this movie. Although this movie also has really nice sport-racing cars and excellent looking women, I still think it is 10 times better than &quot;Gone in 60 seconds&quot;; with exciting high speed chases and hot rodding scenes going well over 220 mph. This movie also has an excellent soundtrack, and not to mention, an excellent plot that cannot be beat! I have seen it in the theatre five times, and I just bought it here at the best price I could find anywhere! I know that I will be watching this movie over and over again for the years to come. It was definately worth my time and it has always kept me on the edge of my seat!
2002-03-21	4.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Think of this movie as a true race car - it forgoes luxuries like plot and acting in favor of pure speed and excitement.  The car chases and drag races in this movie are the best I've seen since "The Road Warrior", and this film will go down as one of the best car movies in history.  It does an excellent job of capturing the underground street-racing scene, too.  There actually is a "club" of kids who race their rice rockets late at night when the cops are sleeping, and their culture is fascinating.  They probably exist in your city and you don't even know it.The paper-thin plot basically follows an undercover cop who befriends the same man he is supposed to arrest.  Throw in some awesome cars and you have this movie.  I didn't enjoy the squeeky-clean shine that the filmmakers put on everything - every car in the film is waxed with a $5000 tape job, and whenever the racers drive anywhere they drive in perfect synchronization, like ballet or something, and it looks stupid.  All the girls are sexy and thinly clad, the lead actors were obviously choosen for their looks rather than their rather poor acting ability.  The dialog is boring, and the performances are universally dead-pan and boring.  So what.  The action scenes are hot.  This film actually puts the actors in the cars and hanging off of trucks going 70 mph.  The drag races actually manage to turn what is essencially a short, visually boring event into pure excitement, reminiscent of The Matrix and other modern films.  You can't read about it, you just have to see it.THE DVD - the extras on this DVD are the best I've ever seen.  You won't find documentary overkill here, just a few great little features that are very effective in helping you understand the film.  The clip on editing shows how the director cut some gory footage to achieve a PG-13 rating (and increase the film's take by $100 mil), while a visual effects montage combines storyboard clips with bluescreen shots and final footage in a way that is infinitely better than those boring storyboard stills every other DVD forces you to wade through.  The "Making of" documentary is interesting, because of the unique way in which the action scenes were shot and how the REAL racing culture in LA affected this movie.  Finally, the audio commentary is informative, but the director's voice puts me to sleep.  The audio/video quality of the transfer is excellent.  A good dvd.
2002-05-26	2.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Cool cars, beautiful people but no storyline to speak of, no character development &amp; if you choose English DTS, all you get is Dolby Surround-Sound!
2002-01-17	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	When a young speed demon racer (Paul Walker) is the new guy on the Streets. While there`s another racers charged the streets of Los Angeles, every night is a championship race with nitro-boosted fury. Dominic (Vin Diesel) rules the road turning all his challengers into a hard core winner and he could be under suspicion of Stealing Expensive Equipment. But when the young racer proves himself to Dominic, he`s one of the fastest driver out-there but What Dominic doesn`t know is that the young racer is acutally a undercover detective and he also unexpected falls in Love with Dominic's Sister (Jordana Brewster).DVD`s has an strong anamorphic Widescreen (2.35:1) transfer and an excellent Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound including also DTS 5.1 Surround Sound. This was One of the Biggest Unexpected Box Office Hits of 2001. The Flick's only Flaw, it's suffers a Thin Story-line. DVD Extras are:An running commentary track by director:Rob Cohen (Dragon:The Bruce Lee Story, Triple X, Day Light). Deleted Scenes with/without commentary and more. This film has excellent car-racing scenes full of excitement. Panavision. Grade:A-.
2002-01-25	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is truly a bad film, reflecting certain issues and segments of our society that are truly lost and hopeless, not to mention criminal. I hope the cast and crew were well paid for their efforts. It's highly contrived and very juvenile. If not for the innovative and somewhat inspiring race scenes, this movie would be a complete waste of money, time and effort. Don't waste your time.
2013-08-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	i Love every movie in this series. Nothing like hot guys driving fast cars! Worth watching over and over again
2001-06-28	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Being a female I don't usually care for flicks that revolve around hot rods, guns, and action scenes. I went to see Vin Diesel (the most beuatiful man alive) and stayed to see everything else. I was blown away by the cars (makes me want trade in my civic for a real car) and I'll admit that during some action scenes I wasn't breathing! All-in-all I'd say it's a must see. I will definetly be buying this when it becomes available.
2005-11-28	1.0	4	11	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Crap!  I blame this movie entirely for the rage of driving cars with Chinese symbols painted on the doors with lawnmower-sounding exhausts.  A creation of Satan both actor and plot wise.  Michelle Rodriguez is an attention retainer, but that aside, Paul Walker should "Walk" himself into on coming traffic.  Complete moron.
2001-06-23	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Talk about adrenalin rush whenever the races and chases occured. Hot, and fast, and dangerous, and I'm not talking about the women.The premise for the movie was average, cop sent to investigate the connection between a team of hot rod car racers and a series of electronic laden semi thefts.Cop gets involved deeper than he had planned to, and finds that his loyalties are torn between his new-found friends, and his job.But, screw the story, see it only if to see the races and the truck chase!Vin Diesel put out a strong performance, as he's apt to do.  The guy reeks of Charisma.
2013-11-04	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I've been wanting to buy this movie to watch it again and i loved it! The product is used but it look it great shaped im saticfied!
2013-07-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Great movie with great actors, fast cars, and lots of thrills! Video quality was very good and the price was good also.
2002-02-15	1.0	3	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	When visiting the Czech Republic, a Czech friend suggested that we see a movie together, and due to problems translating American movie titles, she took me to see "The Fast & the Furious" on accident. After a couple of hours, we - the entire audience - rolled out of the theatre laughing hysterically. (This is saying a lot - Czech theatre-goers tend to lap-up American action-adventure films.)Though the special effects were impressive, the boys and girls were pretty, and the music was thumping, this was the single worst movie I've ever had the misfortune of seeing!Don't get me wrong - I enjoy silly movies as much as the next guy - I recently saw the Austrian robot, Arnold Schwarzenegger, in his new movie, "Collateral Damage," and I had a great time.But please, give me a break: the FBI orders the LAPD to infiltrate a high-tech street-racing gang accused of freeway hijacking 18 wheelers using suped-up Honda Civics - the FBI's rationale is that they don't want the truckers "to take things into their own hands." This is the REAL plot!This movie gets a three groan rating!
2001-10-31	5.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	THIS movie definately has to be one of the best ive ever seen the special effects are awsome they cars are awsome everything in the movie is awsome even if your not totally into cars like i am i think you can still enjoy it and will have you wanting to watch it again and if your like me it will cause u to want to buy a Civic or Supra or somthing and hook it up like these cars..not matter what u drive the next time you get in your car after you have seen this movie you will hit the gas pedal a little harder and quicker.
2002-02-26	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	WOW, i thought that this film was good, amazing. Great cast, amazing cars, an excellent night in, loved watching it, had me on the edge of my seat right up to the end, wanted it to go on forever. i would recommend it to anyone. I rented it and watched it 3 times over a  weekend, now going to buy it. GET THIS FILM AND YOU WON'T BE DISAPOINTED.
2002-01-07	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	&quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; is a fast paced action picture. It has a gret plot with everything that guys love (cars, women, action, loud music. there's only one problem. It's all been done before. In 1990 a great action picture titled &quot;Point Break&quot; was released. It was so similar that if &quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; had the same actors and charecters it could have been a sequel. Instead I think it's just a rip off.There are some slight differences however (more like comparisons). In &quot;Point Break&quot; the bad guys, led by Patrick Swayze, surf and in this film the bad guys, led by Vin Diesel, race cars. In &quot;Point Break&quot; the bad guys rob banks and in this they rob semi-trucks (?), yes semi-trucks. Rapper Ja Rule has a cameo in &quot;The Fast and The Furious&quot; and Anthony Keidiis of The Red Hot Chili Peppers had a cameo in &quot;Point Break&quot;. In &quot;Point Break&quot; the hero (Keanu Reeves of recent day &quot;Matrix&quot; fame) meets his girlfriend (Lori Petty from &quot;Free Willy&quot; and not much since)in a restaraunt where she is the waitress and in &quot;The Fast And The Furious&quot; Paul Walker (&quot;Varsity Blues&quot;; &quot;Joyride&quot;) meets Jordana Brewster (&quot;The Faculty&quot;; &quot;The Invisible Circus&quot;) exactly the same way. Ted Levine (&quot;Bullet&quot;; &quot;Evolution&quot;) replaces the buddy cop in &quot;The Fast and The Furious&quot; that Gary Busey (&quot;Silver Bullet&quot;; &quot;Lethal Weapon&quot;) played in &quot;Point Break&quot;.&quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; even pretty much has the same ending as &quot;Point Break&quot;,which I won't give away to those who have not seen either film. I knew what was going to happen before the film was over just from having seen &quot;Point Break&quot; However &quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; is not a total waste of time. It feels like the sequel to &quot;Point Break&quot; that I always wanted but never came. &quot;Point Break&quot; is a much smarter film but when you're dealing with street racers and director Rob Cohen (&quot;The Skulls&quot;; &quot;Dragonherat&quot;) what did you expect. Vin Diesel does give an excellent performance as does Jordanna Brester and I expect great things from both actors in the future. However Paul Walker's performance as the unbelievable cop-hero falls flat. He can't even compare to Keanu Reeves and that's pretty sad.It's a good film but if you haven't seen &quot;Point Break&quot; see it first. It's the original and it much better. Besides &quot;Point Break&quot; was an original idea.I think writer W. Peter Iliff deserves a story by credit &quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot;. See both films and then you decide.
2014-07-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Eye candy!
2009-04-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	same basic story and both great movies.  an undercover cop starts working on a case to bust a group of people who have been hijacking and robbing 18 wheelers.  (in point break it was bank robbers)  the crime leads to suspect that the perpetrators are linked to street racing (in point break they were lead to surfers) so he goes in and starts trying to form contacts and meets mia (in point break it was tyler-both who worked at diners oddly enough) and he forms close bonds with a group of them and finds troubles with a  rival street racer (in point break it was surf nazis) and starts to point the truck robberies at him because of his own personal vendetta (same in point break) dismissing the fact that his friends are the ones pulling off the robberies to support their adreneline rush habits(in point break it was to financially support their endless summer and in fast and the furious it was to keep them up on cars and equiptment)  .  same basic story.  both great movies.
2002-03-10	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Don't expect high end acting or much of a storyline from this movie.Paul Walker is stiff as a board &amp; not believable as a car fanatic.  I couldn't picture him even changing oil much less racing! On the other hand, Vin Diesel does well with the script he was given &amp; looks like he fits right in.  Personally, seeing Vin Diesel with his shirt off made the movie for me, but the car scenes were a big plus!Is it always correct?  No way!  Duh, it's a movie people!  It is for enjoyment only.  It is not a technical documentary about cars or racing.  You have to take it for what it is...a movie about a bunch of people that love their cars &amp; love to drive 'Fast &amp; Furious'.There is this whole undercover cop/highjacking thing in the background, but it is so underdeveloped it's not worth worrying about.Let me put it to you this way, if you get a rush when you see Eleanore in 'Gone in 60 Seconds' (for the pure enjoyment of it being a great car) then you would be able to enjoy this movie.
2001-12-09	3.0	1	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is one of those great horrible movies.  In four or five years, this will be on TNT or TBS &quot;Movies for Guys Who Love Movies&quot; repeating 3 times a week.  As with other awesome terrible movies, this has redeeming factors.  Certainly not the acting, though Vin Diesel does a decent job, above everyone else's phone-in of the dialogue.  The music, race scenes and cinematography are pretty well done.Basically, you have to determine what your mindset is prior to viewing.  I went in knowing that this was no Citizen Kane, and had a blast.  Other people in the theater thought it was legitimate cinema, not eye candy, and were really disappointed.  I'm rating it 3-stars, but if you want a low-impact fun movie, to &quot;let the art flow over you&quot;, this is the one.The interesting thing is that this is a repeat of another movie.  I realized this a half-hour into it, and proceeded to exclaim aloud during a midnight showing.  (Side note:  The only reason I was there was that a transformer blew and it was August in Phoenix.  So I had to seek refuge in a cool place until repairs were made.)  I did not regret seeing the film - it was eye candy.  Though I had to watch my speed on the drive home in my own &quot;rice wagon&quot;.One other reviewer got it right.  It's Point Break!  Take the script for the other thespian (Keanu Reeves, not Paul Walker), do a find-and-replace on &quot;surf&quot;, &quot;bank robbery&quot;, and &quot;FBI&quot;, and replace them with &quot;cars&quot;, &quot;cargo hijacking&quot;, and &quot;LAPD&quot;, and you get the EXACT same movie.  They're so similar, it's eerie.Once I get the DVD, I'm going to put the Point Break VHS in and listen to that audio with the F&amp;F video feed and see if they match.  I can see it now.  Paul Walker confronting Vin Diesel, with Keanu's voice (as he reproaches Patrick Swayze)&quot;You got greedy!  And it went bad!&quot;  The only difference is that we know Johnny Utah is in the FBI first, then he's a wannabe surfer; where Brian O'Conner is a wannabe racer, THEN we learn he's LAPD.  That's probably enough to avoid a lawsuit.The editorial review compared it to &quot;Donnie Brasco&quot;.  Come on.  There are no Oscars in this film.  Others have compared it to Gone in 60 Seconds, which was a bad terrible movie, one in which Oscar-winners (Cage, Jolie, Duvall) obviously had some bills to pay.  Also, American Graffiti was a classic coming-of-age character study, with the car culture (in a different valley - the San Joaquin) as a backdrop only.  Though Graffiti was equally endearing, it was for different reasons.F&amp;F was a fun movie - just start it with no expectations, and you'll be pleasantly surprised.
2002-01-19	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This Film is fantastic! Right from the start we are led into a fantastic car-chase. ... I have never wanted a honda so badly!! The story is very similar to a certain playstation game. If i were to say the game i would spoil the twist. This film is action through and through. the film has several twists and you begin to doubt who the baddy is. Very well thought out and the visuals are great. These film is intended to keep you on the edge of your seat and it achieves this with bangin tunes, slammed motors and cars so maxed that the family saloon just will not do! Explosions gunfire and tyres screeching really test your sound set up. The Atmosphere at the first race fills your ears and really makes you feel like you are there. All in all this DVD is a sound purchase, and you will watch this one over and over again. top film!
2002-02-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Fast and the Furious..a film for everyone!! For the guys, we have the fast cars, fast girls..blah blah blah, for the chicks we have 2 essentials elements when it comes to a successful movie..Paul Walker and Vin Diesel!
2008-10-20	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious is not too bad. The plot line is predictable but is presented in a way that makes it entertaining. There are some scenes that are not believable and could have been better. The most glaring are the robbery scenes. It is just a miss match that is so obvious the director ignores until the end of the film.  The acting of Pawl Walker as Brian O'Conner and Vin Diesel as Domminic Toretto are not bad. There are few difficult scenes that will make you wince but overall it is workable. The chase scenes are generally good but the opening scenes is painful to watch. It just does not appear plausible and does not make much sense.  Overall, not bad
2014-02-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	awesome love it , looks better than i thought , i would be buying more item's from them soon, great stuff
2013-01-26	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious movie that started it all.  Once of my favorites.  The acting isn't the greatest, but the action is.  You have to watch it for the ridiculousness.
2001-07-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	the fast and the furious was a great movie.  The races got my adrenaline going. I saw it twice and i am buying it wen it comes on tape. Vin diesel was great in this movie. I've known him before this movie though. Saving Private ryan, pitch black, boiler room strays and multi-cultural.) He is a nice-looking guy along with paul walker. Paul has nice looking eyes. even though i am black i like white guys too. They even made the movie kinda funny. Vin Diesel was the perfect person for the leader of the gang and paul was perfect for a young policeman. Jordana Brewster was also good. She had a good role along with Michelle rodriguez. I like that. A girl right in the mix of everything like the guys. This movie was really good.
2013-04-25	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	10 years ago, if you told me I would love the F&F movies, I would have told you you were completely mental...loud, crazy, stupid, but a complete blast.  Pretty much what they were supposed to be.
2002-01-08	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you are a Man you must Love this movie, Its got the three things essential to life, Cars, Women and Money. Great Extras,  So when your done with the movie all you gotta do is watch the making with more cars and even hotter women.BEST MOVIE EVER!!  EVER?  EVER!!!
2014-02-05	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	loved it great movie i dont thing i have ever had an issues ordering a movie off amazon. everything always turns out how i want it.
2002-01-04	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Here is a movie made by the numbers--stock plot scenerios--that is saved by the racing of high performance cars. Only in the movies would an undercover cop risk everything to solve a case, and then once he has done so, let the suspect not only walk away, but provide the means to do so. Just like in &quot;Breakpoint.&quot; But this is all a big &quot;nevermind.&quot; This movie hardly needs a plot. The whole purpose is to show ten seconds worth of racing.
2004-02-27	1.0	12	21	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I was tempted to give this 5 stars because I've rarely seen horrible done so well.  This movie's effect had taken hold even before I saw it: I kept wondering why teens in cheap, brightly colored 4-cylinder cars were winding the engines out of what amounts to a fuel-efficient riding-mower with a car body placed on top.Then I found out.A movie was out that showed small brightly-colored cars going really fast but, in the movie, they had big engines in them...and "Noz".  Apparently, the redneck striplings whizzing by don't think anyone else can tell the difference between the cars in the movie and their moms Honda.  I'll bet mechanics the world over are thrilled about this movie and the resulting boon in re-built engines, thrown rods & body-work that they've reaped.Vin Diesel was perfect for this part in that he looks as dumb as he really is and saves us the tragedy of an actor of real talent being debased in a movie of this caliber.If you liked this, let me recommend something else on your level: "Coyote Ugly".  This combination may be the ultimate double-feature for today's aesthetically-challenged.  Dig in and space out!
2013-05-30	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Well if you like rice rockets and love to drive fast, you would like this movie. Vin Diesel plays a good role along with that guy all the girls are crazy about, ya what's his name, lol. Well if your 16-25 and given you like cars, rice rockets, then you might find this movie as entertaining as me.
2002-07-31	5.0	1	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Yeah,yeah,yeah this movie is cool and has nice car scenes.Yeah.Whoopie-woo! But the thing that really makes this movie JUST stand out is VIN DIESEL.Vin brings out the little quivering,grinning little girl in me! And to see him topless in this movie.The joy!(LOL) Not to sound shallow but Vin,you're a beautiful man!:-) Another thing to look for in this movie is a good peformance by Michelle Rodireguez.She's a really good actress and her peformance was very strong.Whether you like or dislike this film is up to you,but Vin is all mine!(LOL)
2001-07-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The fast and the Furious was an outstanding movie.  The movie was da bomb. the story was excellent and the cars were OUT OF THIS WORLD.  the movie got me into cars and i can't wait til i get an awesome car like some of those babies and jack my car up.
2013-05-04	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was an instant classic for me. Cars are exciting by themselves but this movie actually has a plot. All in all a definite five star rating!
2002-10-23	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	They go hand in hand don't they.  So do you really need to read the review of a movie that has Vin Diesel.  Story...[...]...But what Vin Diesel brings to a movie is the next action star hype.  This movie is incredibly fast paced.  From the opening scence which shows Paul Walker as Brian O' Connor speeding down the road in his suped up street car turned race car.  Although it supposedly gives us a line into the underground racing world, it's still a little hard to swallow.But like I said there is action and lot's of it.  The DVD is cool because it explains that they actually used some of the underground racing community to fill in as extra's.  The Special deleted scenes are pretty good, and it shows several different camera angles for the truck scene at the end, which is pretty intense.I wouldn't buy the DVD if I could go back and change my decision, but it is definatley worth renting and watching if for nothing else than the special effects.
2013-12-31	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Who doesn't love the fast and the furious movies? Bought this to add to our collection and glad I did. Everything was in perfect condition.
2001-09-05	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Let me start off by saying that when I first saw the trailer for The Fast and the Furious, I that it looked great and I was dying to see it.  But as the hype grew and they even talked about it on the news, and how it would affect street race, I started to get tired of it.  I began to think, this movie is just going to be another sucky movie, with two cool action sceens, no plot and bad acting.  So my friend had to practically drag me to see it.  As I was watching it, I was completely engaged in the movie, the action sceens were so explosive, I found my muscles clentched, and my heart racing.  The acting was great, Jordana Brewster lit up the screen and Vin Diesel was such a badass, it was awesome!  Also, much to shock and amazement, it not only had a plot, but a good one.  When the movie ended, I couldn't believe it had been and hour and a half, the time FLEW by.  Overall, great acting, great plot, and absolutely chalked full of action.  When my friend and I got into the car to leave, we were both so pumped up, that I made him just sit in the car for 5 minutes before driving because I didn't want him to drive like the guys in the movie.  I walking in thinking it would suck and I walked out thinking it was one of the top 5 movies I've ever seen!
2009-06-28	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious is a good movie for those who like fast cars, and a lot of action. The plot is easy to follow and isn't the greatest but stays funny and action packed consistantly. It's mainly a movie with fast cars, and hot women. If your not into that then I suggest you dont buy this movie.
2002-01-14	4.0	1	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I bought this movie knowing the comparissions between Gone In 60 Seconds but I think that this one is better.The plot and the action secuences are better by fast.A good choice.Regards,David.
2002-01-02	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	ok ok, i am very young but i can still say this movie made no sense and the only way it got better was the cars.Skylines, Civics, Integras, RX-7, Supra, S2000, GS300, Is300(if u missed it), and dodge Charger.the cars made this movie, NOT the actors.....WAtch &quot; Legend of Speed' by Ekin cheng and &quot; Full Throttle&quot; by andy lau...REALLY GOOD racing movie ..o and &quot; Thunderbolt&quot; by Jackie Chan( Eclipse Vs SKyline in this movie and LOTS of actions)
2002-01-07	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Besides the action and the [pretty] girls, the movie accurtately shows street racing to the core.  For those who are interested in cars you should simply enjoy watching the nice souped up cars that flash accross the screen every two seconds.  I'm sure research was done thoroughly to make every auto mechanical detail realistic as possible.  The part where the mechanic talks about the legendary Japanese tuner "Spoon" shows just that.  Many of the information described about the car tuning is only available in Japan at the moment, where all of this import car tuning craze started.  Sources such as the popular Japanese "Best MOTORing" video series must have been fully studied to get every detail down to the point.  Being a car fanatic myself I was most impressed with the technical accuracy of the movie rather than the big explosions.  The weak story can be compromised since I was fully satisfied by the other before mentioned aspects.
2013-06-14	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A rollicking good time, especially if you like Vin Diesel. The rest of the series is similarly excellent. Highly recommended!
2003-03-27	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	...This is the most adrenaline rush i have ever had watching a movie. It has great scenes and heart pumping music. The movie was one of the best movies i have seen a a long time. I saw it in theatres twice and i bought the DVD. If this movie doesn't give you an adrenaline rush you better go get checked out at the doctors. I would recomend buying this movie and if you ever feel down just pop it in the DVD player and watch it. It will cheer you up when u are in any mood. This is not just a movie for people that love cars. Its a movie for everyone and if u like cars thats an added bonus
2003-07-14	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Hiya, I would just like to say that this offer is great! The film is even better with great graphics and music this beats every action film there is. Within me being a girl it's very good!
2013-12-14	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	My husband is a big fan of all the fast and furious movies. The driving is great and the movies actual follow each other
2003-08-07	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	First of all, this is a GREAT movie, Ive had to have seen it at least 50-100 times already ever since I bought it.  I rented the original addition and it was great, but this one is better by far.  It has a lot more stuff to watch, a prelude to 2 fast 2 furious, and other stuff about 2 fast 2 furious.  Theres even a mode where the director talks to you through the movie as you watch it, and you have the ability to see deleted scenes and different camera view.  I highly recomend this, especially if you love this movie as well as the serious that it is becoming.
2014-02-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This will be well received as a gift for my special person. It makes the set complete for a great gift.
2002-01-10	2.0	104	185	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	1) If you break the law you are cool, if you don't break the law you are not cool.2) You get all the hotties if you are cool.3) If you are cool you can afford a nice house, parties, and fast cars without having a job.4) You make friends with cool people by beating up uncool people.5) If you are rich and asian, you must be a gangster.6) Properly tuned 4 and 6-cylinder engines have just as much top end as supercharged V8's and V12's (but V8's can do wheelies.)7) It's ok to let your friends sleep with your sister, as long as you threaten to break their face first.8) A woman's purpose in life is to sleep with cool guys.9) No one ever dies as a result of street racing.10) There are no ugly women at car shows.The movie gets two stars because of the racing scenes (hey, gotta give credit where it's due).  Besides, we weren't really expecting oscar material, right?  Looking at the other reviews on this site, apparently girls only need a couple of hot guys in the movie to be happy.  So sad. Maybe this is actually a chick flick?Anyways kiddies, review these lessons and use the enclosed coupons on your Toyotas, Hondas and Acuras.  Natural selection will take care of the rest.Derek (who is &quot;uncool&quot; because he doesn't use words like &quot;sick&quot; and &quot;phat&quot; in his reviews)
2002-02-17	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie has a bad plot, but it was still great!  The cars and racing scenes were sweet, just the story line wasn't all that good.  This is a movie for people who like action movies or cars.  Pretty good acting too.
2008-04-02	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	When I walked out of this movie back in 2001 ,I remeber still trying to catch my breath after the movie was over. Vin Disel (should have been the next big action star) plays Dom a drag racer/mechaninc who is caught up in a stolen goods ring. Paul Walker(well on his way to being the next Rob Lowe) plays Brian an undercover cop sent to inflriate Dom's gang and try to stop them. The film also a subplot where Dom's gang has beef with an Asain crew lead by Rick Yune. Things complicate when Brian falls for Dom's sister played by the very sexy Jordanna Brewster. The film has a great supporing star in Michelle Rodgurez and cameo by Ja Rule. It also has some of the best car chase scenes since Ronin. Just go and enjoy this film.
2002-01-23	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Sure, it's not going to win any writers immortal fame as brilliant storyline crafters, but, face it, The Fast and the Furious is a decent, nay, *good* movie.  It was exactly what it was billed as -  a movie about chicks, rice rockets and racing.  Whether any red-blooded male could dislike this movie is certainly a question in the first place.  The Fast and the Furious has some sweet chase / race scenes, nice cars and hot girls.  What male could say it sucked?  But, beyond that, it's a fairly decent movie.  Unlike many movies, ranging from the action genre, to the horror genre, to the infamous gross-out comic genre, have plots that resemble something thrown up after one too many bowls of Trix in the morning.  While it's not exceptional, The Fast and the Furious has a decent, vaguely palatable and even engrossing plot.  It's not offensive, at the very least, although the ending is quite lacking.  Paul Walker's acting is, admittedly, poor, but Vin Diesel is a very convincing and powerful character, and, in general, the array of supporting actors and actressess do their jobs quite nicely.  Overall, an enjoyable viewing.
2003-04-06	5.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	i really wanted to see this movie, and when i saw it i said "this is the best movie i have ever seen".it had a great plot.Vin Diesel was awesome.so was Paul Walker.the cars were sweet.the rases were awesome the way they used the nas.the last part where they were tryin' to beat the train was awesome.and then when dom hit the truck was awesome.if u haven't seen this movie u MUST!
2002-10-01	1.0	8	14	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Please Amazon, let us give movies no stars if they don't even deserve one, like this horrible movie. Cool/hard guy Vin Diesel poses in this vapid, empty film with nothing to offer. If this is Hollywood's new action hero icon, then someone should go back and watch Raiders of the Lost Ark again. The Fast and the Furious is aimed at meatheads and jocks who get excited at the mere sight of a NOS sticker on a car window. Truly the worst movie in recent memory.
2002-08-15	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was awesome! Vin is hot and sexy. I found myself irresistibly drawn to Vin and Paul.  Paul went from cute in "Varsity Blues" to whoa! in this flick.  And Vin, he's just damn sexy!
2001-09-17	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	So it won't win any Oscars - so what? This has to be the best fun movie of the summer. I don't remember having enjoyed a film so much - you leave the cinema on a high, thanks to the non-stop, superbly filmed car chases and the relentless, thumping soundtrack that plays over, around and in between the dialogue and the countless action sequences. The cast is headed by Vin Diesel - a commanding presence whose deep voice delivers gloriously over-the-top lines such as &quot;I live my life a quarter-mile at a time&quot;. Paul Walker plays a young cop who infiltrates a gang of street racers. Walker has been unfairly criticised in some reviews for his no-thrills acting. In my opinion he plays his part perfectly - this film doesn't call for De Niro-styled introspection. It's a comic book come to life. Go see it!
2013-06-11	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Only benefit to this film is Blu-ray quality. Everything else is extremely edited at PG, compared to dvd limited edition.
2004-08-16	1.0	8	16	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I knew that a big horrible stench of a movie was coming along when I saw the trailors and heard all of the hype surrounding this movie's release and it was even worse than all of the things I anticipated on this pathetic excuse for a movie. All of the negative things that I use to describe bad movies have been used over a quadrillion times but each one of those quadrillion times perfectly sums up what this movie really is: Trash times a quadrillion.The acting is utterly horrific and it stars two actors from the bottom of the acting barrel. Vin Diesel (who at least was decent in "XXX"), and Paul Walker, one of the worst actors I've ever seen. The acting by both of them is like watching house paint dry in humid weather.The so-called plot which is relatively interesting at best centers around a Los Angeles drag racing gang where they steal special equipment meant to beef up the engines of the racing sports cars to make them go faster and a series of hijackings of semis by a gang of drag racers occurs, an undercover police officer is assigned to find out the culprit of the many hijackings that have been occurring.This movie is a complete farce in every way. The stunts in this movie are extremely unrealistic even without the thinking cap on. I might come off not being educated about cars on here but come on! Is it possible for any civilian vehicles to go that fast in real life? I mean based on the speed of the vehicles in this movie, even NASCAR vehicles go slower than the ones that are driven in this movie! It would be nearly impossible to have steady control on a car going at such speed on a city street due to the uneven surface (speed bumps, potholes, etc.) and also it would also risk a horrible crash because of the immense difficulty of maintaining control over the vehicle.One of the worst things about this movie that really ticked me off is how it passes women off as nothing more than sex objects for the masses. It really ticks me off that such utter trash like this that makes women into nothing more than objects for men is so popular these days. Is it just me or was this movie meant to be aimed at the bottom of the barrel of civilization. Unless one was totally brain-dead or as dumb as a dead dodo, this movie is insulting to ones intelligence.So if the truck-drivers are considered the antagonists in this movie, well all I can say is that I really was cheering for the truck driver who was trying to defend himself with a firearm after a failed heist and also how the movie makes cops into bad guys (and these are not corrupt cops either). Hell, why is it alright to make the `good guys' endanger innocent lives by hijacking semis, threatening bystanders, pedestrians, or treating women like objects or filth like this?To sum everything up on this review, this movie is everything that makes a movie so horrible to watch. It gives out the worst message that glorifies threatening innocent lives, reckless behavior, and forsaking education and intelligence just for the sake of a stupid sports car (in the movie by the way, they look hideous) or a lifetime of regret should a drag race go horribly wrong. This movie, including the "Widescreen Tricked Out Edition" belongs in the landfill. Avoid like the Ebola virus.
2009-10-05	4.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie and going to be a classic, the stunning sound and picture on the blu ray version is unmatched making it one of a kind.  I definitely would recommend this to anyone, if you are a racing fan this one is definitely must own.
2001-10-23	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	That's a pretty good movie. I liked watching it on my chinese DVD. But you gonna like it only, if you are a racing fan. If you like hearing engine sounds such as in DRIVEN or GONE IN 60 SECONDS, you'll like this one. --&gt; The soundtrack is fantastic (Ja Rule...)
2001-12-02	2.0	0	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	From the first time I seen this movie I noticed something, it was a movie that was about a bunch of really nice cars and not much of a story plot.  I thought the movie was good but I am the time that looks for a good story plot.  If you are one of those people that like a good plot this is not the movie for you.  If you just like the cover of the book and not what is in it, then this movie is for you.  I would recommend renting it before even thinking about buying this movie.
2002-01-10	4.0	5	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Those looking for an anecdote to last year's lackluster exhaust dispenser &quot;Gone in Sixty Seconds&quot; should find a comfortable remedy in &quot;The Fast and the Furious,&quot; which practically ignites the screen in a blaze of frenzied excitement. The story behind the amazing action set-pieces and drag races is mediocre at best, but that's the extent of its shortcomings, as it grips us in a rocket ride of tension and suspense that makes Bruckheimer's flick look like a three-legged race.The beauty of this movie is its ability to rise above the level of its premise, which any sensible person will be able to see through. It centers around Los Angeles cop Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker), who has been given an undercover assignment to locate the lifters of stolen electronics. The manner in which the goods are stolen leads Brian to the street racing gangs that populate the night streets; their leader, Dom Toretto (Vin Diesel), is skeptical of Brian's arrival, but takes him under his wing when he rescues him from pursuing cops after a drag race.Then things start getting tricky: Brian finds himself falling in love with Dom's sister, Mia (Jordana Brewster), while also learning of a feud between Dom and a rival street racing gang led by Johnny Tran (Rick Yune). After finding gross amounts of electronic equipment in Tran's garage, Brian returns to his headquarters with his newfound information, but it turns out to be a mislead, and he must start facing the fact that Dom's gang is the one responsible for the thefts.The plot is pretty basic, reminiscent of a dozen previous undercover cop movies in which a person's loyalty to his occupation is tested by a forged friendship with the enemy. Given the fact that Brian's undercover status must, at some point, be revealed to his new friends, the movie follows a fairly predictable route in which we know what will happen next. The FBI, as portrayed in the film, is also pretty lax in their efforts, and after a few beginning scenes, they are much better left discarded from memory.Despite these minor speed bumps, &quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; manages to engage the audience with a stunning array of stunts, special effects, and full-speed-ahead action that never stops moving until the blazing, rip-roaring final chase. In a way, the film's predictability works in its favor, allowing us to focus our attention on what's most important, and that is director Rob Cohen's amazing knack for intensity. Employing an edgy, hardcore techno soundtrack to accompany his magnificent visual thrills, Cohen supercharges each moment with raw, unrelenting suspense.Take, for instance, the beginning drag race, which pits four drivers against one another amidst a terrific crowd of grunge teenagers and gang members. With the use of extreme quick cuts that take us from close-ups of the drivers to the blur of the cars as they pass bystanders, the scene is given a momentous amount of energy, expertly conveying the rush of adrenaline as each speedometer climbs higher. As the action begins to tie itself more to the story, we soon bear witness to such heart-pounding, breathless scenes such as the botched lifting of stolen goods from an armed trucker, and the final chase sequence, which crowns the film in a blaze of horse-powered glory.The film's cast is equally involving, employing the talents of Diesel and Walker and using them to its full advantage. Walker's credibility as an undercover cop is questionable at times, but he gets the job done with credible results. It is Diesel, however, who steals the show: his brazen demeanor, from his bulging biceps and muscular build to his gruff voice and heavy-duty attitude, all give off the unstable intensity needed to make his character completely unpredictable in the face of such familiar material. His presence is felt with as much tension as the action itself, and this role, if nothing else, should prove his worth as a great actor who knows what he's doing.As summer fare, &quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; is a cut above the rest, and provides more than enough excitement for those of us who have found this summer's movie season to be somewhat lacking. The film has its shortcomings, but it doesn't concern itself with trying to cover them up or better itself. It keeps our attention, as well as its own, on the superb array of drag races, revving engines, and high-speed chases that are edge-of-your-seat fun from beginning to end.
2013-06-05	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This review is not about the movie, which I enjoyed enough to purchase the disc.I purchased this version specifically for the Digital Copy that came with it.  I was looking forward to watching it on my 30" Apple Cinema Display, only when I got it downloaded, I found out that it is only compatible with HDCP compliant monitors, which the cinema display is not.  No where on the packaging did it mention this restriction, nor did it warn me when I downloaded the movie either.  Very disappointed.  This kind of BS is what makes people pirate the movies.FOLLOWUP: 7/7/13 - I contacted Universal and complained about the inability to do this. They got back to me very quickly with an answer on how to download a SD copy of the movie. Apparently in iTunes, it defaults to download the HD version, and for some companies, they enable the HDCP-only protection. But the SD version isn't protected. Apple doesn't let you know that there is an alternate SD version you can get that you can view instead. So kudos to Universal for providing an easy mechanism for downloading their movies, but it would have been nice to have known I needed to make sure I got the SD version also.
2008-02-02	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Of course this movie was made with one thing in mind...bringing tricked out rides to the big screen and create illegal racing scenes for youth enjoyment.  Fast and the Furious does this well, and for most people, that seems to be where the excitement ends.  Seeing all three F&F; films myself, the original is easily the strongest of the bunch - not so much for its cars and racing, but for overall production.  Although it is over-the top fantasy, I enjoyed the story and characters much more than the two sequals.The story is about a young cop named Brian O Conner (Paul Walker) who goes undercover in the street racing world of L.A. to discover who has been stealing shipments of electronics from big rigs on the highway.  All evidence leads to a group within the racing realm, whether it be the whites, asians, or hispanics.  Brian eventually works himself in with Dom Toretto (Vin Diesel) and his group of race buddies.  The situation becomes complicated for Brian, constantly fighting with one of the guys, caught in the middle of the race gang wars, dating Dom's sister, and being suspected as a cop by Dom himself.  Eventually Brian is forced to choose to help his new race pals, or complete his mission by taking Dom in.The characters were actually pretty good for this type of film.  Vin Diesel steals the show with his magnetism and screen presence.  Though Brian was played out well by Paul Walker, there was never enough substance to make this main character shine.  Dom's buddies, girlfriend and sister were like a family (though crazy at times), but nevertheless kept me entertained for the most part.  The other gangs of racers, especially the rival asians, were fairly mencing and added quite a bit to the progression of the plot.The cars themselves were very nice.  There aren't any exotic cars here, except one small scene with a black Ferrari.  Most of what you see is typical tricked out rides, but the movie does do the job of letting us see inside the cars and under the hoods quite often at all the details.  Dom races Brian in a quick street race at the end of the movie in his pure "Detroit Muscle".The races are like the title suggests.  The movie wastes little time at getting the races going and showing off the rides.  There actually wasn't as much street racing as I had hoped for, and the best car action was actually a scene where Dom and the gang are attempting to rob a big rig on the desert highway.  The plan backfires, creating a decent climactic scene of suspense and action that keeps things intense and rolling till the movie's end.There is no doubt you will want The Fast and the Furious for car and race viewing pleasure.  Though the story and characters make this feel like a B-movie, I felt it was a very good B-movie, which easily feels more mature and solid than its two sequals.This particular dvd version also includes a 6 minute short film, picking up with Brian after this movie and setting things up for the next film in Miami.  There is no dialouge, just music to accompany the scenes.  It is nothing special, but for a little short film, its nice to view at least once to make the connection between this film and 2 Fast 2 Furious.Acting - 3.5Action - 4Characters - 4Story - 4Overall - 4
2002-04-08	2.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	i like to watch the fast and the furious. i've watch it eight times
2002-04-17	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I'm a Vin Diesel and a huge import car fan. In my opinion, the acting in this movie was well below average.  The cars were beautiful though. I loved this movie and a lot of my car enthusiast friends stayed in the theatre after it was over to see it again. If you just want a fun movie and love cars, this one is for you.
2012-12-28	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Paul Walker, Vin Diesel, Jordana Brewster & Michelle Rodriguez and The Charger Enough Said!!!! The First and a Must Have of This Awesome Franchise!
2012-11-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	First of the series and is a great movie about street racers and loyalty between 2 friends one is a undercover cop the other a thief/street racer.
2002-06-29	3.0	9	12	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS is a movie with an assortment of far-fetched ingerdients that combine to make up a far-fetched plot.  It offers beautiful cars and obnoxious characters who combine for some impressive racing / getaway / highway-jacking scenes.In the end, however, there is one genuinely worthwhile reason to see this movie:  Vin Diesel.  This is the first movie I've seen him in and I was quite taken with his acting style.  He has an exceptional screen-presence, especially for a relative newcomer to the acting guild.  The jury is still out on whether Diesel can play more than just a tough-guy, but even if he can't, he still plays that role very well.  I'm looking forward to seeing him in TRIPLE-X.Beyond Diesel's theatrical performance, the film does not offer a whole lot.  The &quot;hero&quot; of the movie is a cop who is less likeable than the &quot;villain&quot; (played by Diesel).  He also non-chalantly breaks the #1 rule in a policeman's code-of-conduct:  never EVER commit an crime with the efficacy of enforcing a law.  But oh, well, this is Hollywood.If you want a far superior movie in the fast car genre, I would recommend GONE IN 60 SECONDS.  To me, it was far more satisfying than this one.
2002-10-13	1.0	6	11	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	They shouldn't of called this the Fast and the Furious, it should've been called Point Break 2. Same exact story except it's an under cover cop in street racing cars instead of on a surf board, and it has the same bad acting. I don't know who discovered Paul Walker and Vin Diesel, but they have about as much talent as a rock. They only way I tolerated this movie is because there are so many nice cars in it, that it makes it worth watching, but only once.
2003-08-24	5.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS is just such a cool, fun, action-packed film that you can't help but love.  It has a very cool structured plot and it never becomes the least bit boring.  The acting is good, and wheather you're hyped-up by the action or twiddling your fingers in suspense, you won't leave the film unimpressed.  Unfortunately, it's somewhat underrated, too, becasue all the critics just think it's a bunch of mindless, stupid stuff with bad acting.  But, that's what they said about ROCKY, too, and look what happened! What do they know?  So, in conclusion, if you love undercover cop movies and racing movies, you can definately buy this before even rening it.
2004-05-02	1.0	6	11	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was absolutely pathetic.  It is everything that is wrong with America.  The music is obnoxious and moronic, the acting sucks, (...) the plot was wretched, it was horrible!  There arent enough adjectives to describe the horror of this movie.  "Cool" cars, "hot" women (not really Michelle Rodriguez kinda has a mustache), gangsters, racing, in other words totally original (haha)!  The WORST thing about this movie though is that it spawned the creation of other films similar to it that disease our society and rot our minds like XXX, 2Fast2Furious, to name the most obvious.
2003-09-01	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The movie is still the same. Nothing was changed. The movie is pretty good, but I've seen it a million times. The new bonus features are awesome, though. This tricked out edition has a prelude for 2 Fast 2 Furious, deleted scenes, behind the scenes of 2 Fast 2 Furious, trailers, and a feature called Trciking Out A Car. It shows you how to do tricks and how to drive fast. That one is my favorite feature from this DVD. The rest are good, too.
2002-04-04	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is one of the best movies ever made! I loved the racing parts and the way cool cars like the TOYOTA SUPRA TURBO,  MAZDA RX-7, DODGE CHARGER, and the ECLIPSE. This is all about cars. I loved this movie so much that my background and screensaver on my computer are FAST AND THE FURIOUS ones. ..... A cool part in this movie is when Brian and Dominick race the Ferrari guy and at the end of the movie when Dominick races his father's DODGE CHARGER and Brian races Dominick in the TOYOTA SUPRA TURBO. The DVD edition lets you see the crash when Dominick hits the truck in the DODGE CHARGER. The DVD also has some music video's like JA RULE and SALIVA. I would FULLY recemend getting this DVD because it is the best DVD for people of any age! Thrilling, exciting, and makes you wonder in some parts. Extremly fast and beautiful cars and at the end of the movie, you think to yourself, "Will there be a sequel?" Because Brian justs walks away after giving Dominick the keys to his sweet TOYOTA SUPRA TURBO...so I think that there will be a sequel. Hope this review was helpful...GET THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS!!!!!!!
2001-06-23	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	When I come out of a movie such as this it feels good.  It's nice not to be buried in pretentous philosophy or slapped in the face with false sentimentality.  This is an extremely well-made American action picture.  No beautiful fights, or martial arts,  it's all about noise and strength.  Big, loud car chases that leave you wanting to drive very fast after leaving.  Characters that are cool enough that you want to know them, even if they are hyper-violent crazy nutjobs.  You need half a brain to get the plot, and the dialogue is pretty atrocious, but all the actors have good charisma that overwhelms the mediocre material at the core of the movie.  It is a pleasure, but not a guilty one as some have said, good action movies have been hard to come by recently.  Swordfish and Tomb Raider seem to be the cream of the action movie crop lately, which is really pretty bad.  One last thing, if you're tired of all the artsy directors, who tear down these types of movies for being worthless.  Just see it, and show them that in order for a movie to be good, it has to be entertaining.
2003-03-17	1.0	19	43	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Once upon a time, somewhere in Hollywood, someone said, "Hey, lets [mimic] Point Break, make it brainless and unwatchable, and it will become a box office SMASH!" Naturally, he was immediately rushed to the funny farm and never heard from again. Oh, no, wait a minute, this is Hollywood! They went through with it and it made millions.The only thing that kept me awake throughout this "movie" was the loud DVD sound. (By the way, I'm 16, so don't think I'm some stiff old professor type) The plot? There was none. Unless the stupid street racing thing was supposed to be a plot. Sadly, I think it was...Anyway, if you crave a movie with a plot and at least halfway-decent acting, stay far away.Okay, you can click "not helpful" now...
2002-01-18	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	&quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; is not an ordinary movie. It's one of the biggest box-office suprises this year and when you take adetailed look at the screenplay you might wonder how this movie became such a huge hit. The formula is simple but effective;Two actors with charisma,(Paul Walker is a real hunk, who has a rather calm acting style in the footsteps of Keanu Reeves and if you close your eyes you might think you are listening to Keanu.Vin Diesel has a very prominent appearance, and his talent caught Steven Spielberg's attention who did cast him in &quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot;. In &quot;Boiler Room&quot; and &quot;Pitch Black&quot; he gave solid performances. But for both actors $10,000,000 + salary barrier was exceeded after the huge success of &quot;Fast &amp; Furious&quot;),Hot looking but unknown actresses (Monica Tamayo,Jordana Brewster and Michelle Rodriguez),Dynamic soundtrack with literally furious Hip-Hop and R&amp;B songs by popular artists of the genre (including Ja Rule, Limp Bizkit, Faith Evans, R. Kelly, Ashanti, Petey Pablo, Shade Sheist, Gotti etc.)And most importantly fast hot cars giving us all the excitement and big quantities of adrenaline.One has to be very optimistic to be able to speak of big performances of the actors or plausibility of the plot, but obviously this formula is working. The concept of street racing is attractive for most of us, maybe even seen as a symbol of freedom, and this cultural phenomenon was successfully made into a movie. (I'm still wondering if the producers of &quot;Grease&quot; are the parents from the producers of &quot;Fast&amp;Furious&quot; ;)The stimulation doesn't come through the plot but simply through watching all those custom made cars, hence I would highly recommend the DVD with many extras for enjoying the movie over and over, but I wanna repeat a warning from the &quot;Fast&amp;Furious&quot; team:All of the racing stunts in The Fast and the Furious were performed in a staged environment by professionals with years of training and experience. Please do not try any of these yourself. Be smart. Drive safe. Stay legal.
2002-01-22	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is a really bad adaptation of Driven without Sly Stallone.  Vin Diesel is a bad actor, and so was the rest of the cast.I loved Michelle Rodriguez is &quot;GirlFight&quot;, but here she was awful.Don't bother.....
2014-02-13	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you like cars and speed you will love this movie. Not only does it have fast cars but there is a story to the movie.
2013-07-19	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	It is great to see Vin D. and all the others so young an tough.  This is a great ride.  Enjoy
2003-01-16	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Let it be known that I am not a car buff and I know nothing about hot rods, engines, or anything like that. If there were many inaccuracies in the film pertaining to realism in performance and speed, then I didn't notice them. And it's just a movie, so you shouldn't either.When the movie was released in theaters, it looked like a jam-packed film full of fast action, insane stunts, and awesome cars. That's only slightly true.This movie is empty! Devoid of action, but in-depth with story (that went a little TOO in-depth for a movie like this. . .it belonged in a not-so-actiony flick).Let's see: The opening sequence has a 3-minute chase. Then we have a race or two on the streets that is nothing but fast driving. This takes us to the 25-minute mark of the movie. Now watch your DVD's counter; about a full hour passes before we see another major car chase/action piece, and that is the grand home run stretch of the movie - the last 20 minutes. The last 20 minutes should have/would have some great action regardless of whether the rest of the film was packed with action already. A real letdown in that department - it was a big summer movie that screamed &quot;LEAVE YOUR BRAIN AT THE DOOR AND HAVE FUN!&quot; It seemed like the story was paid more attention to, but I wasn't expecting that to happen. It was &quot;OK&quot;. No more than that.
2002-03-19	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I'll admit I liked this better than I expected, but that's not saying much.  This movie is loaded with superb action shots that took a lot of stunt coordination to pull off well.  I mean, how many movies are going to show a car driving UNDER a moving truck?  While street racing does exist, it is unlikely that it's THIS organized, but these are the movies and you want to see something exiting, which the movie does provide with the races.However, the rest of it is ordinary, and if you are watching at home, put a bucket under your set to catch all the excess testosterone that drips from the screen.  For the movie makes it clear that this particular world is a man's world.  A woman's job, even for the tough talking ones, is to remain slim, attractive, scantily-clad, and available upon demand.One of the the things that turned me off when the film first came out was the name Vin Diesal.  It sounds manufactured by a committee to get young males to buy tickets.  But I went back to his credits, and found that he did have good roles in films I liked (&quot;Boiler Room&quot;, &quot;The Iron Giant&quot;, and &quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot;).  And there is no doubt he oozes a lot of charisma along with that testosterone.  I'm looking forward to see what he can do in the future.
2001-10-12	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is very enjoyable even for drama lovers because it has drama in it as well as thrilling action.  My mother which does not at all like action movies really enjoyed this one and even wants to buy it as soon as it comes out on DVD.  The surround effects are great and I gotta tell you that the guys are HOOOT too.  This movie is what a movie should look like and be like.  One word----&gt; INCREDIBLE.
2001-07-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Hey Everyone! I loved this movie. Not only was the plot great and stuff, Vin Diesel was sooo sexy! His voice is really nice. Paul Walker isn't bad to look at either. It's a great movie and not only is it action packed but at the end you can see how good of friends Dominick (Vin Diesel), and Brian (Paul Walker) really were.
2002-02-13	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I'VE HEARD A LOT OF PEOPLE LOVE A PARTICULAR PIECE OF MUSIC IN THIS MOVIE.ITS CALLED 'NUREGA' AND ITS AT THE PARTY IN DOMINICS HOUSE. IF ANYONE WANTS IT.. CHECK OUT AN ALBUM CALLED 'LAST ONE HOME' (ORGANIC AUDIO) YOU'LL LOVE IT!!
2003-05-05	2.0	2	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie must be ment as a joke !  It is nothing but a second class copy of Point Break !  If you are hooked on fast cars, this movie might be &quot;OK&quot;.But as an action movie, it does not even come close to Keanu Reeves and Patrick Swayze's original !
2003-01-21	5.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I LOVE THIS MOVIE. I LOVE EVERYTHING BOUT THIS MOVIE. THE CARS AND WAY THEY ACT AND EVERYTHING. I LOVE JA RULE AND VEN DISEL THEY BOUT ARE 2 FINE HARD WORKERS. U CANT NEVER GET ENOUGH OF THEM 2. I WATCH THAT MOVIE EVERY CHANCE I GET AND SOMETIMES  I WATCH IT JUST BECAUSE THEY ARE IN IT. I LOVE THIS MOVIE AND THIS IS ONE MOVIE THAT I CANT GET TIRED OF. THIS IS THE MOVIE I WOULD CALL &quot;OFF THA CHAIN&quot;.
2003-04-06	5.0	0	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	THIS MOVIE IS OFF TH ECHAIN AND ALL I HAVE 2 SAY IS IF U HAVENT SEEN IT THEN U SHOULD CUS ITS ONE GOOD MOVIE.
2001-08-01	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Well i love the movie but hey what can I say I am a guy.  I sat in the parking lot for 20 minutes lisenting to all the tires spinning out from people trying to be like the movie.  Hey if I had a car half as good as in the movie i would too!
2002-01-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I own close to a hundred DVDs, and almost none of them have satisfied in the way Fast &amp; The Furious has.  The video quality is as great as you'd come to expect of the DVD format, but what really excels (in my opinion) is the audio.  The soundtrack shifts from treblecharging nu metal to hard-hitting electronica to bass-heavy rap all throughout the movie and never lets you stop for a breather, putting the term ACTION back into &quot;action movie.&quot;  Like many have said already; if you're a home audio enthusiast, this DVD is going to pummel you for roughly ninety minutes.Aside from the feature presentation, the extras have been some of the coolest I've seen yet.  I've viewed far too many DVDs that have a total lackluster collection of &quot;extras;&quot; most of which usually end up being some boring low-quality movie trailers or a few pointless deleted scenes.  With FATF, you get the trailers, the deleted scenes, but also a CG montage, music videos, commentaries, interviews, multiple angle shots of various scenes, &quot;movie magic&quot; spots (which show how some stunts were prepared and executed,) and more.  It's literally a ton of awesome extra material to sift through.  After exploring, you'll wish other DVDs (with the exception of a select few movies, namely Fight Club) had the volume of extra goodies FATF does.The DVD Collector's Edition also comes packaged with a bunch of coupons for racing performance mods and accessories, which is nice if you're into (import) racing, as well as a small leaflet which lists chapter information.  However, it has little to do with the DVD itself.  Moving right along...I recommend this DVD to anyone looking for a fast-paced action movie, period.  Forget the claims that non-racers will hate it, forget the laughable comparisons to &quot;Point Blank&quot; (Patrick Swayze?  Are you kidding?!) and forget the sour apples putting this movie down for &quot;not having enough story&quot; -- how often are memorable storylines implemented into action thrillers, anyway?  Fast &amp; The Furious is an action movie in its truest form, on all fronts, and is a very impressive DVD package.  Buy it today.
2001-07-10	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	When setting out to see this movie, the recomendation to see it came from two people,  namely my girlfriend (who feels the whole movie is about nothing more than Vin Diesel taking his shirt off) and a good friend of mine who happens to be a very religous &quot;car guy&quot;. So needless to say, I thought I would be pretty bored through this movie. NO WAY! This entire movie picks you up out of your seat and straps you in the right seat of suped up Eclipse, or Supra (my favorite) or just about any other fast car your heart can desire. The plot wasn't superb, but everything else in this movie more than makes up for it. And yes ladies, Vin takes his shirt off.
2003-01-18	2.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	In The Fast and the Furious, Paul Walker stars as an undercover cop who's seduced by the underground world of drag racing.  Vin Diesel is the head of one particular gang that get their kicks from stealing DVD players off trucks, preferring to do so while the truck is moving at high speeds, perhaps for the sheer thrill of it (and spending countless money on NOS, no less).  That's just one of the movie's many idiocies, which would be forgivable if the movie was consistently entertaining.  It's not.What's most surprising about the film is its lack of action.  Aside from a couple of chase scenes near the end (more on those later), we mostly see Walker getting accustomed to this illegal lifestyle.  In the hands of a first-rate actor, this might be compelling.  In Walker's hands, it's flat-out dull.  He's the movie's protagonist, and he's as boring as they come (to be fair, though, Walker did improve his acting skills in Joy Ride).  He's not the only poor performer here.  Even worse than him are the likes of Matt Schulze and Michelle Rodriguez, both of whom look like they'd be more comfortable posing for a magazine than enunciating dialogue.Faring much better than the rest of the cast is Vin Diesel, whose deep, hypnotic voice is enough to compel alone.  Otherwise, he's at least a decent actor, capable of displaying a wider range of emotions than anyone else here, though he's certainly not aided by the giggle-inducing dialogue (&quot;You break her heart, I break your neck&quot;).  Playing his sister is Jordana Brewster, a real cutie whose only purpose is to play Walker's love interest and be the instigator for his &quot;internal conflict.&quot;  The role might have been more interesting with some nudity, but alas, it was not to happen.The story can be summed up as Point Break with cars, which might sound cool, but then again, I didn't much care for Point Break in the first place.  So I suppose what matters here is the action, and for whatever lack of it we get in quantity, at least the quality is above average.  There's a thrilling sequence that will remind a lot of viewers of the climax of The Road Warrior, if nowhere near as exhilarating.  The stunts are impressive, but hardly anything we wouldn't otherwise see in any dozen summer blockbusters.  So while the finale is reasonably fun, it's too little too late by then.  For truly thrilling, mindlessly enjoyable car chase mayhem, watch The Road Warrior or (for more recent-minded viewers) The Transporter instead.
2001-05-18	5.0	10	21	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I saw this movie about 2 months ago at a sneak preview and I have to say that it is one of the best movies i have ever seen. My friend had told me that it was a movie about Rice Rockets, and i was imediately hooked.  I have a Rice Rocket myself, and this movie made me spend so much money on my car.  The actors weren't really great, but the action was spectaculor.  The opening of the movieis one of the best action sequences I've seen in a while.  The movie in general actually had a plot and it is jam-packed with action and ILLEGAL STREET RACING.  Amen to that.  Over-all, I think everyone should see this movie, and make it a summer blockbuster.  I really give it a ************ 10 star rating, but i was only aloud 5.
2013-11-30	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	It's too bad that I didn't see this movie in theaters (instead I saw it on DVD), because it would have been a much more exhilarating experience. Okay, so this movie isn't perfect. It's not groundbreaking or anything like that. But it's one heck of a ride from start to finish. The plot may be a bit derivative, but who cares? It's all about the cars. It's about the races. It's all about the action, the babes, the hunks (for the ladies, of course), the rock/hip hop/techno music, and more and MORE cars. Was Vin Diesel's acting decent? I guess you can say that. Did Paul Walker fit the role? Sure, why not? Were CGI effects added in? It sure doesn't look like it.I had a really good time watching this movie. I know it's not &#34;Godfather&#34; material, but it's not trying to be. It's a movie about racing and really really fast cars. That's all you would have to expect in a movie like The Fast and the Furious. I'd recommend this film to fans of cars and babes and action movies in general.Grade: 8.3 out of 10
2006-04-29	1.0	5	14	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I would rate this piece of film trash a "0", but unfortunately, that is not an available option. This stupid movie did not start the scene, but it did contribute to it. This review is to all of you ghetto monkey morons who think that because you have ground effects and an obnoxious sounding muffler, that somehow you have transformed yourselves into Mario Andretti and a Ferrari; I have some astounding news for you, the average citizen thinks you are an idiot with a license, and should be barred from ever contributing to the human populus. No one is impressed with your driving antics that endanger the rest of us on the roads and highways. In fact, everytime I read that one of you idiots died in a tragic accident due to your own ignorance and lack of driving skills, I actually celebrate with my friends, and we relieve ourselves on the grave, because there is one less stupid person on the road. Do the rest of the world a favor, save your money, don't make your car look stupid and ghetto, which in return, makes you look stupid and ghetto,learn how to drive safely, turn your hat around (facing forward), pick up your retarded looking baggy pants, put a belt on, and hide your underwear, (that no one wants to see, but laughs at you while you walk past) and speak a normal language that includes words besides "dawg" and other non-understandable neanderthal sounds that clearly indicate your lack of education and stupidity.
2013-12-10	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	sure its fast, but the story line is a little weak i do lie the characters in this series, i think 6 is my favorite installment. bought this to know the past, recommend it for that.
2013-05-18	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Cool movie. Made me want to watch the others in this series. Everything about it was enjoyable. Nothing to not like about it really. A good movie for teens such as myself.
2001-08-31	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is a MUST see movie, thats for sure. It keeps you on the edge of your seat almost the whole time. Not to mention the good lookin cast members (Vin Diesel and Paul Walker, just to name a few). If you havent seen it yet, you have to see it when it gets released on DVD. I personally cant wait to be able to purchase it. If I could give this movie infinit stars I deffinitly would.
2001-10-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	THIS IS THE BEST MOVIE I HAVE SEEN IN A LONG LONG TIME, IF YOUHAVEN'T SEEN IT YET YOU SHOULD.  ITS A MUST ...
2002-01-10	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I don't know what I was expecting, but I know that what I got was a lot more than I had anticipated. I remember seeing the preview and thinking I'd MAYBE rent it, because it just looked like a cookie-cutter action movie, with low-rent talent. I now wish I had taken the opportunity to see this on the big screen.What a pleasant surprise of a movie! There was a pretty good story to it, with a few nice little twists to keep your mind occupied. I can't talk too much about the storyline without giving away the twists, but definately has more to offer than just car racing and women. I am someone who needs a good storyline to go with my action, or I get bored. I was NEVER bored watching this film.One of the reasons I avoided this film was because of the actors in it. JA Rule? Vin Diesel? And quite a few actors that I had never seen, nor did I care to. Going into it, I thought the highlight would be Michelle Rodriguez, who is one of the best young acresses around (see Girlfight for proof). Were there bad performances? A few, yes. But not out of the actors that I was trying to avoid. Alright, JA Rule was nothing special - but he wasn't in the film long enough to matter. Vin Diesel though gave a pretty good performance, and Paul Walker did a very nice job as well. Both of Paul Walker's bosses gave pretty cheesy performances, but you don't see too much of them anyways.The action in the film is top notch, and the film just looks great. On top of the great film, you do get some great bonuses with the DVD. I rented this, and flipped through the extras.... THREE PAGES, and not much fluff material here! I only had a chance to look at a few things, but what I saw was great!I highly recomend buying this movie immediately... and that is coming from someone who a week ago had no desire to even see it!
2001-10-08	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	No matter what anyone tells you, this is just as much of a chick flick as it is a guys movie. And no matter who you are, The Fast And Furious has something for you.Vin Diesel, Paul Walker, Jordana Brewster, and Michelle Rodriguez absolutely ignite the screen in this fast-paced, dynamic film about friendship, trust, betrayal, and above all else, the trials and tribulations of a ring of Los Angeles drag racers. In most action-packed car movies, the characters' personalities are often unimportant and forgotten when compared with how fast their cars can go. I must admit, I was dragged into The Fast And The Furious expecting the same thing. However, within the first fifteen minutes it became evident (much to my surprise!) that the characters in this film actually have depth, and behind the sleek, fast cars, there is actually a quite captivating plot.In my opinion, the most amazing performance of the flim is Vin Diesel in his portrayal of Dominic Turetto, the leader of the drag racers who frequently crosses and re-crosses the thin line between good and bad. Diesel's dominating good looks and superb ability to transorm from ruthless gang leader to lover to something in between make him my bet for the breakthrough actor of the year- dare I say the decade??But I could not write a complete review of TF&amp;TF without stressing the other incredible performances here. Paul Walker gets to showcase his acting skills as Brian, an undercover cop originally sent to rat out the drag racing crime ring's main operators, who instead finds himself forming a strong friendship and understanding with it's main leader, Turetto, and a love (fling?) with Turetto's sister Mia (Jordana Brewster). Brewster's performance was the most generic but ultimately panned out all right after all. Last but certainly not least, Michelle Rodriguez's smart, sassy, and dominating performance as Letty, Turetto's longtime love who is the only woman racer in the drag racing curcuit, proves to be enteratining and makes you want to stand up and cheer more than any other actor in the film.All in all, The Fast And The Furious is one of, if not THE, best race car movie out there, and whether you're looking for a great action movie with fast cars and hot young actors or a real story of betrayal and friendship in the heart of a big city's mean streets, it's you're best bet by far.
2014-02-03	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Movie is legend + great!Recommended to watch. Fresh action, good kick start. Also miss paul walker. Must have this bluray for ur personal collection
2002-01-04	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This film examines the street racing subculture and provides ample thrills for the 25 and under set.  Based on the box office numbers this film threw up, every teenager in the U.S. must have seen it at least twice, since it doesn't have much appeal outside that demographic.The screenplay pretends to be a detective story about an undercover cop Brian O'Connor (Paul Walker) who infiltrates the street racing scene to try to find a group thieves that has been hijacking tractor trailers and stealing the cargo.  Make no mistake about it.  This is not a detective story.  This is a racing story replete with fast, NOS guzzling street machines, horsed up to burn rubber and detailed to attract babes.  Fasten your seatbelt for a screaming ride to testosterone city.The script panders shamelessly to post pubescent boys with hormone overload.  Universal wisely kept it PG-13 to maximize the film's target audience.  There is plenty of strutting, getting in people's faces, muscle flexing and a street fight about every fifteen minutes.  Everyone demands respect and if they don't get it there is either a brawl or a race.  Director Rob Cohen, who cut his directorial teeth on "Miami Vice", has an implicit understanding of what makes male movies work and he pulls out all the stops in this film.Unfortunately, Cohen gets so immersed in the street culture that he recklessly reinforces antisocial conduct as normative.  The film sends a consistent message that honor and loyalty to one's friends are more important than the obeying the law.  The police are portrayed as jerks and fools.  The only way to handle injustice is to take matters into your own hands.  You stick up for your friends even if they are criminals and you are a cop.  If another cop disrespects one of your undercover friends, you slug him.  While this might be an accurate reflection of the culture, I feel compelled to interject that the movie industry has a social responsibility to teach our youth good lessons rather than bolster countercultural behavior in the name of realism.Once you get past the script, the film gets extraordinarily high technical marks for the action photography and stunts.  The cars are first rate.  Most of the ones seen at the race wars were owned by actual street racers who brought their cars from everywhere to be in the film.  The film has so much adrenaline pumping action that by the time it is finished you need oxygen and a yoga session to settle yourself down.  I can't ever remember a film that had so many cars going airborne.  There is more molten, smoking rubber in this film than in a Perelli manufacturing plant.  The final stunt where the cars are racing to beat the train across the railroad crossing is an awesome, heart-stopping thrill ride.  It is easy to see why kids flocked to this film.The most notable member of the cast is Paul Walker (The Skulls, Pleasantville) who steps up to the lead for the first time.  In the featurette included with the DVD, Rob Cohen declares Walker a modern day Steve McQueen.  I'm afraid not.  McQueen, who saw his heyday in the 1950's and 60's, was a swaggering, audacious male lead brimming with machismo and frequently compared to Paul Newman (who was the star in "Somebody Up There Likes Me", the first film in which McQueen appeared).  Walker is a pussycat by comparison.  If Walker were to be compared to anyone of that generation it would be Troy Donohue, the good looking heart throb of the 1960's.  Donohue wasn't extremely dynamic, but the camera loved him, and so did the teenage girls.  Walker fits comfortably into that description.If there is one standout in the film it is Vin Diesel as Dominic.  Diesel carries every scene in which he appears with a pure and imposing power that is present whether he is scrapping or just standing there.  He is mostly tough, but in the scene where he tells Brian about his father, he shows that he can conjure up a vulnerable side.  He presents his character in a way that is both charismatic and complex, part villain and part hero.  No one else in this cast is anywhere near Diesel's league as an actor.Jordana Brewster shows some promise as Dominic's sister and Brian's love interest.  Rick Yune, whose performance I enjoyed in "Snow Falling on Cedars", is menacing and believable as the leader of the Asian gang.This film has a limited audience, but is well done for its target market.  I rated it a 7/10 on the strength of the action and stunts.  The story is about a 2/10, but the racing and chase scenes are as good as it gets.
2001-10-26	5.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	R U Fast and Furious?The Fast and the Furious comes at you like it says. It's not a long movie and really never slows down much at all! Those looking for a movie delving into a complex plot with in depth charachters need not watch it. The movie is as the preview shows, a lot of great car chase scenes held together by a loose form of a plot.It does what Gone in 60 Seconds only wishes it could do. In Gone In 60..you have 2 scenes with cars driving fast at all. Here, you have at least 6 or 7 distinctly different and memorable scenes. Although acting ability and some of the lines lack severely, this can be forgiven and is made up by the cars.This movie is perfect for anyone into speed and tuned import sports cars for the most part(yes, even the occasional despicable economy car made to &quot;perform&quot; is present). When I first saw the previews I knew this was going to be basically an adrenaline rush of a movie!  I gave it 5 Amazon stars(when actually a 10!) because that's what it delivered.
2001-10-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	For the custom car/truck enthusiasts, this show will blow your socks off! But for all you critics who know anything, don't waste your time, cuz you will just say it's ....
2002-01-21	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	i left fast and was furious at wasting my time/money.that is all the review this junk deserves!
2002-01-11	1.0	4	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If this were 1957 and Roger Corman had made &quot;Fast and Furious,&quot; it would have been entitled &quot;Hot Rods From Hell&quot; and shown up in your local RKO at the bottom of a bill that featured &quot;Creature From The Black Lagoon&quot;What can you say about a movie whose most compelling line of dialouge is &quot;I  bet there's at least 10 grand under that hood!&quot;I know a 23 year old college student who shaved his head bald, so impressed was he with the Vin Diesel character.It's a good thing he didn't go to see &quot;Shrek&quot;
2002-02-26	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	ok I thought this was a brilliant movie, not such a hot story line tho'. For those who said it was a wast of time, you obviousley dont like cars, have not taste in cars and couldnt careless about fine machinery.I can understand your point tho' but then why watch a car movie.... i dont like drama's so guess what ?? i dont watch THEM !! and I certainly dont put my views about them on the net too put others off !!THIS WAS A BRILLIANT PERFORMANCE STREET CAR MOVIE !
2002-02-23	1.0	4	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	What can I say? I was sick and my girlfriend decided she'd rent a movie for us to watch. So, she comes back with this.In short: bad plot, bad dialog, bad movie.In slightly: This is a movie for kids who take their car and add a 4" diameter exhaust to it so that they look 'cool'. Lots of loud noises, a soundtrack filled with Limp Bizkit-wannabes, and not much else. There isn't even much racing in this movie, and those that are are over so quickly they're just boring.There's scenes that make no sense (what's with the cut to Vin Diesel and his girl during the police raid? it has nothing to do with the rest of the movie), it ends unfinished (you spend all that time developping a love interest, and then you aren't going to let us know what happens?)It just sucks, but there's no accounting for taste.
2002-01-21	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	You'll like this movie ONLY if you are really into car racing, or if you are a big 007 fan (you know what I'm talking about, fast and furious action and a parade of &quot;hot&quot; women).  I'm both, so I really enjoyed this movie -- indeed, I have watched the racing scenes countless times.  Otherwise, you'll find the plot very silly, the screen play trashy, and the acting, while commendable, rather unsophisticated.This movie reminds me of the 1990 Hong Kong flick called &quot;Off Road&quot; (a.k.a., Heroes of the Road), starring Jacky Cheung and Loretta Lee.  You may want to check it out as well if you enjoyed this one.
2002-01-07	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was well made and is definitely worth buying.  It incorporates its talent wisely which really brings out the best in the movie.It lacked racing scenes, which I feel is the only real problem this film had.  The racing scenes that it did have did blow your mind and left you wanting more and more, but thats the trouble you have when you make a good action movie.  The viewers want more and more action scenes and could care less about the plot.The plot of the movie was a modified &quot;Into Deep&quot; story which in some situations more than others left something to desired, and even some points it really started to lack originality.It is no &quot;Gone in 60 seconds&quot; but it is a keeper.
2013-06-05	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Had fun watching it with along with my spouse.  Good movie for the time when it was shot.  Gives an idea of night second life
2001-11-11	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Wow, I love this movie. Great great music, super cool cars and great actors. Hell, who needs a story anyway! Ahhhh, just look at these cool cars :-) The plot isn't that bad by the way.
2001-06-23	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you're into the racing scene, or have been, this movie is definitely for you. I'm surprised it contains so much action. When the credits ended, there was an additional scene (that everyone missed), with Dom (Vin Diesel), somewhere in Baja, Mexico, driving off in a GTO (I think) in his 10 seconds of freedom. I thought it was great.
2002-07-06	4.0	2	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I think this is a very good and interesting. The movie is mostly about this guy named Dominick Toretto (Vin Diesel). Dominick and his friends high-jack a few trucks with dvd players, t.v. and stuff like that. So the cops send Brian Spilner (Paul Walker) to join Dominick's racing gang to find out whos high-jacking the trucks. So David and Dominick become close friends.And in the end Brian and Dominick drag race eachother, and Dominick gets in a car accident and the cops had already found out that Dominick was the one who was high-jacking the trucks, and when the cops were on their way Brian let Dominick go.I would reccommend this picture to people who like cars,racing,and action.
2009-10-03	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Never would have figured it but I like Vin Diesel. If you're into racing cars (which I'm not) This should do it for you. Vin is the numero uno street racer and the cops are using an undercover man to bring down a truck hijacking ring. They go through several engine rebuilds and at least a hundred tanks of nitrous oxide to get to the conclusion and prove that crime doesn't pay. Alot of good driving stunts and a lot of action. Not Academy Award material but a good watch.
2002-02-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I love this film. I love this film and I love Vin Diesel! Buy it and watch it, then watch it again. And again. It's just cool!
2002-10-28	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Well, the movie wasn't that big of a deal. It was spectacular, and I can see how people into cars really dug the machines and the whole styled up world of "rice-rockets", but as a movie, it was rather lame. The plot is rather easy to figure out (even though the twist got me tricked for a moment), so it's not gonna strain your brain to watch it. The visuals will be nice too, and there are a couple of good special effects. The acting is average though, and the directing didn't make for a landmark piece of movie history either. Paul Walker, the main character especially misses one thing: and that is a character. Vin Diesel on the other hand sparkles. I used to hate him, and never understand what people adored about him, but after watching this flick, I join what one character says in the film: the movie gravitates around him. It reminds me of Schwarzenegger in "Terminator". Michael Biehn is gone, but Schwarzi stayed. Same thing here (I guess, that's why some refer to him, as the new Schwarzi). Walker never had a chance against his presence on the screen. Neither did the others -- they all just fade away. Not to say that they ever would go beyond two dimensions, but some of them do make an effort at least...The other thing to watch out for, which might raise one's appreciation for the movie is to think of it as following the cowboy-genre traditions. This might help you to understand a couple of motivations and behavioral patterns better. It amde me think quite differently. But all in all, the movie was average. Or maybe I expected something better. All in all, they could have put more close-ups of the exteriors and interiors of the cars in them -- just to give a better taste -- and more action scenes with cars (surprisingly little of that).However, the DVD is a good job. Pumped full of (good, quality) extras, it is a piece to own. And the director's commentary is also very informative, and helps one understand quite a bit about movie-making in general and the making of this specific movie.So, if you liked the movie -- get it! If you didn't -- rent it! It's worth checking out!
2014-03-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you love cars, chicks, and fast cars you have to see this! Add it to the Vin Diesel collection!
2013-12-20	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	All the Fast and Furious are the best movies ever! Action packed from beginning to end! I love all the characters and have watched it at least 10 times!
2001-12-29	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A dream come true for car freaks like me.Excellent special effects and cool cars make this a must see!Can't wait for part 2!
2002-12-31	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I think the Fast &amp; the furious is a great movie it is entertaining and it is a good way to learn about racing and to learn about cars,like car parts and stuff like that and maybe even how to work on a car,but i think it is a cool movie i think people should watch it,it is not at all bad it may  have a few cuss word but hey  don't alot of movies,but people get out there and support this movie,like I am,i can't wait for Fast &amp; the furious 2 to come out so i can see it,hopefully it will be just as good as the first one,so get out there and buy the first one,now and don't miss out on the exciting action pack racing movi fast and the furious...
2014-01-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you enjoy racing, you'll love this film! It was very interesting to see two sides of Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker), the cop and the man who loved living on the edge of his seat....very much like the actor did, himself. I was sad to hear about his death, but he'll live on through films like this. Paul and Vin worked well off each other, that dynamic was very well played. Their ''bromance'' was obvious both on screen and off.
2004-07-25	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I loved it. A great racing film. Filled with action and adventure. One of the good racing movies. Better than the second movie!
2013-12-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	There is more than meets the eye in THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS. It is more than just a fast car action movie. It goes beyond that genre touching camaraderie and an interesting integration of multicultural back grounded characters. Paul Walker and Vin Diesel make this film work with racing fast cars at the heart of it all. There is a derivative thrill in it all, a certain attraction that lingered long after I saw this in the theater years ago.
2013-04-24	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I like this movie from when I first watched it lots of action I bought all the movies made along with it
2002-05-24	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I watched this movie when it first came out in theatres and I enjoyed it immensely. The movie is based on an undercover cop (Paul Walker) who becomes associated with a street car racer (Vin Diesel) to investigate merchandise stealing in the street car racing world. The action scenes that involve car flips and chases are unbelievable! There must have been a lot of new technology coupled with video editing to get the scenes perfect. The stunt people looked like the best in the business. The one thing about this movie that parents need to know is that it's not for kids. The mix of sex and violence is strong during some moments. The acting is also superb by rising young stars Paul Walker and Vin Diesel who are on their way to great careers. Two thumbs up!
2002-07-07	3.0	6	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	One of the hallmarks of a true B-movie is the camera work.  When there's more loving detail placed on the race scenes (or the surfing scenes or the fight scenes--whatever!) than on the actors themselves, you know where the director's (and the cinematographer's) priorities lay.One of the most amazing things about &quot;The Fast and the Furious,&quot; is that it takes a cast of relatively attractive young people and makes them look singularly unappealing.  Glam shots do not exactly abound here.  Which may be a plus in the final analysis.  On some level these fairly seedy characters are not actually glamorized.  One could argue that's a good thing.The plot itself does sort of lionize the outlaws, though--not so unexpectedly.  We've seen the whole undercover cop developing sympathy for the bad guys routine before.  Usually, though, they're supposed to snap out of it.  I guess it's harder though when you're in love with the gang leader's sister.  But let's not divulge much more of the not-too-substantial plot.Vin Diesel could be a compelling  screen presence and has been in the past.  But although he has some hot cars here, it's plain that he needs a better vehicle than this.
2002-03-01	1.0	5	9	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Ummm.. Does anyone in this movie know anything about cars or acting or the fact that hijaacking trucks is not cool....Ok..Ok.. This movie helped me realized that I'm not a kid any more. There are other things in life that has told me this, but this sealed it. This is one of the stupidest movies I have every seen. Where do I start. Well, to all the teenagers and those under 25 that believes a hopped up Honda with a tiny turbo and NOS is going to beat a real sports car in a race needs to talk to their dads and uncles about real hot rods and sports cars. (BTW for all of those of you out there that think these cars are real and aren't temperamental aluminum death traps that need.. Umm if you want to spend 50 grand on a car that can do a sub 5 second 0-60 and a 110+ mph quarter mile.. by a 2003 Vette Z06 and pocket the extra 30K.)Alright, enough talk about the fantasy cars in the movie. This has to be the second worse plot I have ever had the displeasure of seeing (the first is Congo.. I hate that damn talking monkey). Did anyone else notice that anyone that was over 25 in his movie and wasn't a street racer was either very stupid or REALLY VERY STUPID. Also are the truckers in this movie suppose to be the bad guys.. because I though hijacking trucks was a federal crime and I found myself rooting for the trucker to blow the thieves away (but then again I cheer for the Indians in westerns thanks to my Cherokee and Blackfoot Great Grandmothers).Can someone explain to me how 20 year olds with no job can afford 20 thousand dollar cars with 60 grand worth of parts? Or where everyone in the movie giveaway $2K on every race with no job? How come there are no fat people in this movie..  every body looks like they climb out of a bad Calvin Klein  ad.The worse thing I can say about this movie is I have people call this the new millennium version of West Side Story. I almost punched that person. This movie isn't even a guilty pleasure. Gone in 60 Seconds is a guilty pleasure. Was it Oscar material.. No, but it at least had real actors in it and they could deliver a line without sounding like they were reading it off cue cards. Any who wouldn't love to own the GT 350 ( a real hot rod).Can I say anything good about the Fast in the Furious... It has GREAT SOUND
2002-01-16	1.0	7	18	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I fully understood that this would be an action movie based on a cookie-cutter plot. What the hey, I just wanted some escapism. But it wasn't quite so.Oh, there's action. But not at the pace I expected. It's here and there, between overlong stretches of ... uh ... &quot;plot.&quot;And when the action arrives, it isn't that stupendous. Mostly sequences of cars going very fast ... in a straight line. Not terribly interesting. Some shots of cars in formation were kind of nice to look at, though.There are a couple of good stunts, but you saw them all in the previews. They provide some interesting visuals, but that's about all.The human angle is laughable. The romantic interest is wafer-thin on plausibility. Unless you're really into how these cars are souped up on nitro, I don't recommend a buy.
2001-10-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	After seeing this movie I actually contemplated taking driving lessons for the very first time in almost forty years. Bart Haensel (almost forty years)
2002-02-12	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is a case of &quot;What you see on the boxcover is what you get&quot;. It has some good car chase scenes, Vin Diesel acting tough, and women in tight clothes. I enjoyed watching this movie, it was a mild, pleasant diversion.
2014-01-25	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I got this DVD because I have a VHS tape. I enjoy watching this series.  All actors are very young.
2014-04-23	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	One of my favorite movies. I absolutely love it!!! I recommend it to anyone who has taste in action movies.
2001-12-26	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	the movie fast and the furious is very well done. its for anyone who likes cars, action, drama, surprise. its just an overall great movie. if your somone whos interested in cars then this movie is a must buy. and even if your not interested in cars this movie is a must buy. watch it once and will never look at movies the same again
2001-07-14	1.0	1	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is a very stupid movie. People have died trying to race like in the movie. It gives a bad influnence on people. I think this movie is a cheesy teen flick. It is a stupid one about racing and girls. there are way more better stuff then this. When I saw this I was very dissapointed with the movie. I do however like the music in it. That's really all. I don't really like that this movie did so well. It is really stupid! I will never see that stupid movie ever again. The actors are not the best actors you've ever seen. They are really bad at acting and do not play a good roll in the movie. The script bites so does this flick. I do not recommend this movie!!!!!
2003-08-31	2.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Basically POINT BREAK with souped up cars instead of surfboards.  Not much in the story and action dept., this flick has the momentum of a tricked-out pedestrian.
2001-07-16	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This was a really good movie. It perfectly incorporated action with romance and everything in between. I recommend this movie even if you don't like hot cars and racing.
2002-01-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	When I saw who was in it I wanted to see it just for the actors. But when I actually saw it, I decided it was deeper then the characters! Great Actors, Great cars, over all great movie!
2001-12-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I'd go as far as a 10 for this pic. You can't sit still during this movie. If you're a racing fan you can't go wrong here. The racin' is exuberating and &quot;Wish you there&quot; thoughts. I left this movie ready to race. Ready for the thrill.  The story isn't all just about racin' either. There is a point to it but can't give that away. This differs from &quot;Driven&quot; w/Stallone in that this is street racin' &amp; Driven is Indy racin'. The soundtrack in the movie is awesome but the actual soundtrack release is disappointing. Best when viewed on a big/wide screen with a good sound system. I can watch this over &amp; over and have been patient for its release.
2002-03-26	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The fastest movie with the most beautiful cars I have seen for a long time.  The speed and cars are fantastic.  If you like speed and cars this is definately the movie for you.  I am going to buy the video because it's the type of movie I can watch over and over again.  The girls and guys in the movie are hmmmmm ...
2002-10-17	1.0	8	15	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you are looking for a movie that has morals and values, then go get a Disney flick.  This film is tasteless, stupid and really really dumb.  The plot concerns evil LA gansters who drive cars at 130 gazillion miles per hour to kill innocent people so they can steal DVD players, then they go hold illegal street races and everybody cheats to try and win while avoiding the "Evil" cops.  Thats basically the entire plot of the film.  Theres also something about a undercover cop, but I dont care.  This film is really tasteless and stupid, with no reedemning values whatsoever.  This is a film that tells kids that killing innocent people and commiting violent crimes are fun, exciting and ok to do.  I cant believe this film did so well during its run in theaters, but I'm forgetting the rules to succed in a teen film1. Have really fast cars drive around2. Have scantilly clad women3. Have shots of the "Good guys" killing innocent people.and4. Make it tastelessIf a film targeted at teenagers has these rules, then it is virtually garenteed to succed.  My favorite sequence is when the "good Guys" (The theives) try to stop a truck so they can steal the 35,660,332nd DVD for thier secret hideout, and when they try, the truck driver fights back, breaking a guys leg, shooting the "good Guys" and destroying thier cars.  Hooray for the truck driver!  It makes me feel so good that innocent civilians can stop heartless crimminals.  Evil and tastelessness have a new name, and that name is "The Fast and the furious"  Burn foul Demon, Burn!The good:Umm.... a truck driver inflicts pain on the main charachtersthe bad:Everythingand the ugly:Teaching kids and teens that it is okay to kill people and live a life of crime should be punished.
2001-07-03	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I think this movie is tight. I would go see it again, which I'm probally going to do sometime soon. The cars (Honda) in this movie are like MAGIK. I would do anything for one of them. My friend that I saw it with, also thought the same way about thsi movie. I hope this movie becomes very successfull.
2001-12-22	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is great if you like cars and girls.  There are alot of people that think bigger is better.  Well there just wrong.  The people that think mustangs are good don't understand this movie. Everyone needs this in there dvd collection.
2002-02-25	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A bunch of gender-confused male posturing with no solid storyline.  Lame cars.  Should have got Keanu to play the undercover cop...that way at least it would have been funny to watch.
2004-08-01	1.0	4	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	As intricate and dense and complicated as the English language is, there are no truly appropriate words to describe how bad this film is.I could try abysmal, awful, horrendous, diabolical, pointless, irresponsible, heinous, wretched, terrible, dire, dreadful times infinity for infinity. But that still wouldn't be enough. Yes, I am being as subtle as a brick in the face. But compared to this movie I am being so low-key you'd never notice.Starring two of the WORST 'leading men' in history, this film is about just one thing; appealing to the masses. The masses have no taste. They will slovenly lap up anything as look as it looks good. The Fast and the Furious however, tastes BAD!The acting is horrible (including Michelle Rodriguez playing, YET AGAIN, a scowling Latino!-How about something different Miss Rodriguez?), the script is pure trash and the direction is junk. I guess you could say I liked TFATF when I first saw it...back in 1991 when it starred Keanu Reeves and Patrick Swayze and was called Point Break. See if you get me...An undercover cop infiltrates a group of adrenaline junkies to solve a string of robberies and ends up falling for the leader's sister. He forgets he is undercover, wrecks their final heist and lets the leader go in the end, throwing his job away. But Point Break has seriousness and depth to it. There was an effort into understanding the culture of risking life for thrills rather than merely exploiting it.TFATF was deliberately designed to appeal to the lowest common denominator. Every single element of this film has been reduced to bottom standard to reach the target demographic of braindead, but impressionable teenage wasteland. Don't be fooled. This film is la scum de la scum.The DVD is in 2.35:1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5.1 sound and loads of fluff extras.
2001-07-30	2.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie really didn't impress me.  It wasn't really any different from any other movies of this type, though it was better than Gone in Sixty Seconds.  This movie lacked just about everything that I was expecting from it...although it did have alot of very nice cars and some really great, realistic looking action sequences.  I must give credit where credit is due.  The acting wasn't too great...Paul Walker was very bad, however Vin Diesel makes up for Walker's bad acting.  I wouldn't really recommend this movie to anyone...but it's nothing too horrible.
2002-10-22	1.0	1	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This flat movie is a non-officially admitted remake of Kathryn Bigelow's "Point Break", with Diesel and Walker (both very bad actors - a rare see in movies) replacing Patrick Swayze and Keanu Reeves. The complex relationship between the gangster and the undercover cop, which existed in "Point Break" has been erased here: everything is just made for showing cars rolling as fast as possible, and many hot girls (Jordana Brewster is OK...), as beautiful as brainless, all walking around in slight clothes, only there for the decoration. Of course the result has not a single slice of interest. "Point Break" was not a masterpiece already, so taking its whole plot and putting it in the racing circle is not very expectable of hope of quality. The dialog is silly, the sound and music are deafening (on purpose, only in order to keep us down on our seats) and the ending is totally ridiculous and unsatisfying - despite all the dangers and insane stunt scenes, nobody dies or gets seriously hurt (except the one who's shot by the truck driver) and the gangster drives away, with the cop as an accomplice. Total nonsense! Fun (maybe) but dumb, and no good. And dangerous - keep the kids away from this!For 'grown-downs' only, and they're plenty of them, especially in America - the film was a great success...
2002-04-21	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious is a movie about a rookie cop,(Paul Walker) who poses as an LA street racer in order to uncover who is behind a string of truck hijackings occuring in the area. Soon, he finds himself right in the middle of the fastest stret racing team in LA.  As the investagation gets deeper, he finds himself caught up in whole racing scene. Theres only one problem-when his time there is up, hes not sure hes ready to go back!The movie cast is amazing and plays their role very convincingly. As you watch the movie you feel as if you are a part of it, like you are right there. I was constantly one the edge of my seat the whole movie, and i found myself watching it again and again and again.This movie combines the story of a group of racers growing up in the suburbs, with knowledge of cars and racing in general. THis is a movie that will quickly become one of your favorites!
2002-05-10	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I rated 3 stars for the Fast and the Furious, well the reason being was because they had nice rides with only imported cars it's kind of tight.  In the Fast and the Furious the beginning was pretty cool, cause of the droped Honda's going under the 18 wheelers cargo, something real astonishing.  In my point of view I, myself like the whole movie.  But the problem was they didn't have enough muscle cars.  I mean what was the whole point of having a cool movie of racing cars but not even other faster cars.  Specially they got too exaggerated with Nos.  They could of least use Camaro's, Corvettes, Mustang's GT's, Cobras, Bullets, Vipers, and some older car's.  &quot;Gone in Sixty Seconds&quot; was way better than this movie.
2005-12-27	4.0	1	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I'm not too into racing/ adrenaline movies like this one but I got it and watched it because I love Vin Diesel and think he is the hottest actor on this planet.  There's nothing wrong with this movie at all and I have no complaints except that I wish there were more shirtless scenes with Vin Diesel.  It's just not my favorite type of movie.
2002-01-16	1.0	8	17	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Awful, Awful, Awful. This film could have been great &amp; I thought it would be based on some interesting reviews. But what a joke!The actors(?!) can't act, the script was absolutely terrible..who affects speech like this? So embarassing to hear white people mimic urban black street speech. I cringed! Unintentional rascism? The only intelligent person, or I should say the only character who was portrayed as being intelligent(the computer/engineer geek who of course dies) has a learning disability! WHAT!The cars are the stars of the film. The desire to see the cars is the real lure here.  Not once does the director focus the camera on them and them alone. They missed the whole web of fantasies assosciated with car culture.And the music was so scouse, so low-budget. A wasted oppurtunity on every level.
2014-06-21	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	We went through the Fast and furious series from start to current in prep for FF6s release so over the course of 2-3 weeks we saw the first 5 movies. it was a fun ride, Oh side note we did not watch Tokyo drift, sorry.
2001-09-26	5.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	it was the best car film i have ever seen.The women where realy nice as well not a girls film. best film ever i give it 5 stars
2001-07-03	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie sucks you in from ground zero, and never lets up.  I drive a 94 Twin Turbo 300ZX and it was all I could do not to punch the gas like crazy after I left the theater from wathcing this movie.  The action is great, the love story is believable and stays out of the way, and the camera angles are just incredible.  The sound of the movie is also very good, with lots of turbo whistling that just makes my blood boil.
2013-12-11	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious (2001). Rated "PG-13". Running Time: One hour, 46 mins.In this first film of the series, a valuable load is in the Rodgers semi-truck. Fast-driving hoodlums get in front of the truck on the freeway, shoot at it and tie a rope to it. One hoodlum jumps on the front of the moving truck and is able to get inside and push out the driver.The next morning, we meet Brian (Paul Walker) in his souped up custom made green car. He goes to Toretto's Cafe and orders a tuna sandwich from Mia Toretto (Jordana Brewster) as he has for weeks. Dom Toretto (Vin Diesel), Mia's brother, is also inside. Then Dom's racing team shows up, a red car, yellow car, blue car and white car. It is Letty (Michelle Rodriguez), Jesse (Chad Lindberg), Vince (Matt Schulze) and Leon (Johnny Strong.  Vince is jealous of Brian and starts a physical fight with him. The woman want Dom to stop it. He does and tells Brian never to come back.Later that night, Brian tries to settle the score with Dom and his team. Brian wants to street race. If he wins, he gets the cash, the receipts and the respect. If he loses, they get to have his green car just fitted with two NOS.Brian has a secret.Also in the cast: Thom Barry, Neal H. Moritz, Noel Gugliemi, Ja Rule, Rick Yune, Ted Levine.One more scene appears after end credits.Filmed in Los Angeles, San Bernardino, Malibu, Beverly Hills, Silver Lake, El Segundo, Westminster, Long beach, San Pedro, Wilmington, Hemet, California.Sites: Closed Norton Air Force Base, Dodger's Stadium, Echo Park, Little Saigon, Los Angeles Produce Market.In-film advertising: Mastercraft Tires, Michelin Tires, BF Goodrich, Pizza Hut, Sparco, Corona beer. Swatch Watch gets a mention in a song.Option of Language: English 5.1 Dolby Digital, English 5.1 dts, French Dolby Surround.Option of subtitles in English.Feature Commentary with Director Rob Cohen.Bonus material: The Making of..., Racer X: The Article That Inspired The Movie. Deleted Scenes. Multiple Camera Angle Stunt Sequence. Movie Magic Interactive Special Effects. Much more bonus material. DVD-ROM features.Rick Yune's next role was more memorable inDie Another Day(2002).The Fast and the Furious (2001).2 Fast 2 Furious [HD] (2003).The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift [HD] (2006).Fast & Furious (2009) [HD] (2009).Fast Five (Extended Version)(2011).Fast & Furious 6 - Extended Edition(2013).Update: Paul Walker died November 30, 2013 in the fire of a car accident while attending a charity event in Valencia, California. Fast and Furious 7 has been re-written and will complete Walker's scenes by using his brothers, Caleb and Cody, as stand-ins and voice actors and with CGI-effects. Fast and Furious 7 will be released April 3, 2015.  Kurt Russell and Jason Statham have joined the cast.
2013-04-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Love this series of movies. Paul Walker and Vin Deisel need to make more movies together.iyuagUYG][i][pihj'
2002-01-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Geez...after I got my DVD player, this was the first DVD that I HAD to get!  It's my favorite DVD that I have and it is worth more than the... I paid for it...
2002-02-15	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is the best movie ever.  Vin and Paul are great and the car races rock!!!  A must see!!!
2002-03-18	2.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Well what's to say? I walked in the cinema hoping for some light entertainment, you know a fast paced car film with some great chases and amazing crashes. However no matter how cool it may be to be under the bonnet watching an engine during a car race 'The Fast and the furious' just isn't able to keep enough interest. Part of the problem with this is you can't really care about the characters because you don't know them.We follow Paul Walker on his misadventures through the world of drag racing as he befriends local veteran (Vin Diesel) and begins to give in to the tag line and 'Live his life one quarter mile at a time' hmmm pity his character goes on a journey of about the same length. But No! The shocks don't stop there! Low and behold, it seems Mr. Walker is a FBI agent who's job it is to find out whose stealing from some poor truck drivers. His life isn't easy though as he falls in love with Mia (Jordana Brewster) who is part of the 'crew' and the film takes a journey of almost Shakespearean proportions (I hope the sarcasm hasn't lost anyone) So they film moves from climax, to climax, then Paul lets Vinny go at the end 'ala 'Point Break' and everyone is happy. Sound contrived? Yes, yes it is.So now I've given that thrilling summation I suppose I need to talk about what I liked in the film? There are some cool as hell cars, great race scenes and a whole lot of terminology that got me so 'revved up' (forgive the pun) that I wanted to NOS it all the way home. If you don't want to go on an emotional journey go right now to your local video shop and rent 'Point Break' unless you really like cars, then you rent 'Gone in 60 seconds' if you've seen those get 'Fast and the furious' have a nice night in with a bag of chips and Jordana's large eyebrows (look at the dinner scene) and have fun.The performances are as you'd expect, not great but not 'Plan 9' horrible. As I said above the special effects are great, but it just doesn't work over a 1 hour 40 min timespan. The DVD has alot of features though and sounds great over a Dolby Digital 5.1 system.
2001-10-10	4.0	3	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Ultimate boys toys film. Exactly the same plot/ story line as Point Break, but that rocked too and if it is'nt broken don't fix it. I loved this my wife hated it, I am an unashamed fan of fast cars fast bikes and all that goes with it. Pure action, visually stunning effects and sound to annoy any neighbour.
2002-04-24	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I think this movie rocks the house. Vin diseal rocks and paul walker does also. Get the movie
2013-05-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is just a fun movie with a lot of great action and stunts, it was a little summer film that was supposed to make a little money and that was it and now we are in the summer of the sixth installment of the franchise, so it is the little engine that could
2005-05-01	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I was only 11 when this film hit the cinemas, but i've got it on DVD and its one of my favourites.Sure, the plot's a bit messed up but there are some good cars and racing scenes.Dominic Torretto (the sexy Vin Diesel) and his car-crazy team just race around in cars and fix them.His team are his girlfriend Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) his sister Mia (Jordanna Brewster) a dude named Jesse and Brian O'Connor (Paul Walker)Michelle Rodriguez's "bad-ass bitch" attitude can get on your nerves in some parts but she acts good.I'd never heard of Paul Walker before I saw this film, but it takes a while for you to figure out that he's an undercover cop.Oh yeah, Ja Rule's also in it, but not for that long..Some of the lines these people had to deliver were awful - Vin Diesel " I live my life a quarter mile at a time" Michelle Rodriguez - " Growwl...I can smell skanks" WTF??All in all, it's a great film, the odd swear word here and there but good entertainment.
2013-11-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	What a movie to watch and see how fast the cars go and all the action to the movie and what happens
2013-12-14	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is one of my all time favorite movies!  It is definitely worth seeing. I had it on VHS, but had to upgrade my collection and get it on DVD:)
2013-02-19	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	As I have said before you have to enjoy movies that keep your interest and The Fast And Furious has done just that. I hope you will enjoy them as much as I have, Sincerely Janice
2013-12-19	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	It is so terribly sad that Paul Walker was taken away so early. Young wonderful actors passing away in their prime seems to be a pattern now. This movie is so action packed you can't leave the room for snacks while the movie is on because you don't want to miss anything, and you own the DVD!!! It's one of the movies you can watch over and over while you wait until the next movie comes out!!! I don't know how they are going to replace Paul, in this movie, and in his philanthropic causes. We've lost another angel.
2002-01-08	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Then this is definately a movie for you to get. I will admit I may be a bit biased because I am a fan of Vin Diesel, but the movie supports itself without the need for "Star power". I consider myself a bit of a Grease Monkey/Car Addict... So from the opening of the movie I was scootched as close to the edge of my seat as one can get, drooling over the Buffet of equipment (and Vehicular Art) that was paraded across the screen. Saliva aside...  I found myself drawn into the movie for more than the cars (But they were nice!) The movie takes you through the guy's version of Male bonding and acceptance... forget about the techno-babble it boils down to Trust & Love of cars. It is a testosterone building experience just to watch. Vin Diesel is Mr. Billy-Bad-... in this flick with moments of human emotion that catch you off guard... but acceptably. The cinematography switches styles a few times noticeably but it only stands to highlight the fact that the implication of Speed or Emotion (On a different level) is to be NOTICED right then. This movie will more than likely be one that I need to replace (Due to the constant wear it receives). If you like Cars, If you like Car movies, If you still have a pulse... You will LOVE this movie!
2002-05-19	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was very refreshing.  Yes, it had great cars, beautiful women and lots of action.  But, it also had a great storyline that was portrayed exceptionally well by the directing, production and ACTORS.  It was gritty enough to seem (almost) real and still fantastic entertainment.  I'm not one to like movies just for car action scenes and this film does not disappoint.Now, if I can just get that Nitrous kit for my own car...Enjoy!
2001-12-20	5.0	3	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you liked Gone in 60 Seconds, you'll absolutly love The Fast And The Furious.  This movies got it all: hot chicks, buff guys, and lightning fast cars.  Ohh what I would do for one of those cars. Anyway, this movies got it all, for the older viewing audiance that is. I deffinatly reccomend buying it right away.  Don't wait to rent it, because you'll only want to end up buying it.
2002-01-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	THIS MOVIE WAS SO GOOD IT INSPIRED ME TO JOIN THE IMPORT STREET RACEING WORLD.I CANT WAIT TO BUY THIS MOVIE.AS SOON AS I GET A DVD PLAYER.I AM GOING TO BUY FOR SURE. THERE ARE OTHER STREET RACERS WHERE I LIVE EXCEPT ONE AND HE HAS AN ECLIPSE.
2002-05-23	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Mammoth piece of film-making. Tremendous! Vin Diesel (buff guy) and Paul Walker (child cop) star in this massive film production. Walker is an undercover cop who investigates an underground street racing circuit. Diesel is the head of the races and he's enormous. Walker races and loses because 'winning is winning'. He also falls in love with Diesel's sister played by Jordana Brewster, yes! Pure adoration! I worship this movie so much I have a golden copy in a case. I pray to the gods that they will make a sequel to this movie as-soon-as-possible. Michelle Rodriguez kicks so much underside! I loved this movie. The final race is breath-taking and kept me on the edge of my seat, biting my nails, jumping from coach to coach. I ate so much potato chips because of the intensity! I gained at least 5 pounds! Buy this movie for your country because of the integrity.
2001-08-09	2.0	1	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	yeah we have!  this movie is the same plot as Point Break. cop goes under cover learning some skill he is not familiar with that will allow him to be a part of the bad guys (car racing, surfing).  the cop becomes best buddies with the bad guy and then the cop then falls in love with one the insider women and then blows his cover to her.  at the end the cop gets the bad guy, but then lets him go.  soooooo similar!
2002-02-07	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is [not good], Highly over-rated.  Let me tell you why I say this:1- THE ACTING IS [not good]2- The creativity and film work is at its best an amature level3- The story is [not good]The only good part about this movie is it has some nice cars to look at.  So my advice is just go find yourself a website with some nice cars and there you go, no need to put yourself through this [movie].
2002-01-20	3.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The reason i gave it three stars is because it has some cool cars in it.  But honestly the acting is close to horrible in this movie.  Yet even with the horrible acting the suspense is still there.  So I suggest you rent this one before buying it because if you can get past the acting then its an alright movie but if you can't then i guarantee you will hate it.
2001-11-03	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	To all you who love car movies, this one kicks some major you know what.  Vin Diesel and Paul Walker give great performances.  Also the chick is hot, cars are PHAT, and the movie is non-stop action.  If you love movies like Gone in 60 seconds and Driven, you will love this.  It is a must own movie.  To all the H-town All-Stars this is for you.  I'M OUT!!!!!!!
2007-12-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Is this on par with Gone with the Wind or The African Queen.  No, obviously not, but it is a great car movie.  If you enjoy cars and like the street racing scene then this movie is for you.  There are classic movies which are timeless and then there are movies which are just darn fun.  This movie is the latter of the two.
2002-02-09	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I viewed this film expecting spectacular motor stunts and a great Days of Thunder type plotline involving cops and robbers. What I got was the unexpected. The plot basically drags out Paul Walker's character wrestling with the fact of whether or not he wants to turn Vin Diesel in. The action sequences themselves are reminiscent of something you would see in one of those B movies you see coming on late night HBO and are released direct-to-video. Walker himself has potential (he stole the show in 1999's She's All That) but he was woefully miscast in this role. I see potential in Vin Diesel, too, but the movie relied on viisual spectacle more than characters and plot development. The soundtrack is pretty decent, if you're a fan of air guitar nonsense. The female leads aren't as appealing as you would expect then to be in this type of film.
2006-05-16	1.0	6	16	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Absolutely unwatchable. Cliche-ridden. So silly it's very nearly offensive. It's like watching one long music video by a B-level rapper - full of dumb, beautiful women, buff, monkey-headed ghetto thugs, and jokey tricked-out cars. Without a doubt one of the worst movies I've ever seen. The script is laughable, the acting worse. Vin Diesel and Paul Walker are more "Dumb and Dumber" than "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid". Awful.
2002-01-11	1.0	2	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	(Studio Exec.): "Hey, let's make a "Point Break" remake, but this time with 'Cars' instead of 'Surf Boards'! They (the average movie-goer) will never know!"Let's see, Paul Walker (Keanu Reaves), is an undercover cop (FBI Agent), who is trying to solve Car Thefts (Bank Robberies), so he befriends a likely suspect, Vin Diesel (Patrick Swayze), the member of a street racing cult (Surf Boarding Gang). The movie was not well done, poorly acted, written, directed; you name it.  Here's a few rants about this debacle:>>> Are there any police in this city?  They race all over town with no law enforcement in sight.>>> Not only that, but for argument's sake, let's say that there's actually on ongoing investigation for these people.  Don't you think it'd be easy to spot these neon, six-figure racing cars in town?  "...okay, I've spotted a lime-green, orange Porsche Turbo XLT with turqoise striping..."  Run an APB on this or something?  Come on.>>> By the way, how can you race down dozens of city blocks in the middle of the day without a single bystander or car in the way? "...alright, guys, the coast is clear..."">>> "...he's a burned out cop, and the only chance anyone's got..."  Please.  Paul Walker is maybe 20 years old, and he's an undercover cop?  Doesn't it take like 10 years + to get promoted to this level?>>> Who are these women?  Do chicks really dig undercover racing cults?  And are they all drop dead hot?>>> These racers are all 18-21 years old, yet somehow able to afford $(...)racing cars?>>> The special effects were unforgivable.  I could have sworn some of the close ups were actually animated.Anyways, I know, I know, "don't fight the movie,"  it's just mindless entertainment.  Well, it failed at even accomplishing this.  Rent "Point Break" instead.  It's a classic action flick that actually has some compelling moments and interesting characters and dialogue.  "The Fast and the Furious" lacked everything possible.  Save your $4.
2004-10-09	5.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is a movie that I love watching every once in a while. What can I say, who doesn't like to speed and drag race (oops did I say that outloud?). Anyways this movie is about a cop who must infiltrate a illegal street racing circuit and find out who is fencing stolen goods. Not too hard of a task till he falls for the sister of his number one suspect. He becomes more involved with his new gang then his job asks for and pretty soon, he has to decide which is more priority. A definate must see movie. The only problem I had was the fact that you watch these guys street race and they show the speedometer and it shows them going from 45-60 MPH. In NY here we go from 65mph and up (when cops arn't around of course) and this is in anything from sports cars to rustbuckets. These guys are suppose to have high performance $100,000 engines and stuff, they should of showed them going a little faster than that. Anywyas check this movie out if you havn't already.
2001-06-25	3.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This film desperately wants to be The Road Warrior, right down to fast cars attacking a giant semi. The problem is that Cohen shoots his load all in the first ten minutes. The drag race is awesome. The cars shake all over the place denoting super speed. Colors streak by. Somehow, while going 170 mph, the lead has the time to look away from the road so he can type on a laptop computer he has on the seat, whatever. After this awesome sequence of cool computer trickery squeezing every ounce of speed out of every frame...it's over. And I mean it's over for like an hour while we learn about the cardboard cut-out characters. Then they elude to &quot;Car Wars&quot; out in the desert, a sort of super race. They get to the race and watch one of their buddies race, then Vin leaves and the lead follows. Here's my problem, they never go back to the race. Why even have the race in the story? Nothing comes out of it, so why not just cut it out entirtely? Why tease us with some super cool event that never happens? My other major complaint is that nothing ever comes close to that first drag race. Also, I don't think I've seen such an open ending since The Empire Striked Back. I'm giving this film 3 stars because it did entertain me but there are serious problems that kept me from having a really fun time.
2002-08-19	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I had a dream about VIN the night after I saw this movie. He came by and picked me up in his rice car, and that bratty chick who played his girlfriend wasn't anywhere around. We went riding, and I got to press the button on the nitrous oxide thing that made the car blow out and jack up to 140 mph. NEAT. :)ahhh.but seriously:VIN has a certain something that is going to bring him far in the action hero biz.  This movie was NOT about the SCREENPLAY. nooooooooooooooooooooooooooo.  Nor was it about the wimpy, surfer dude cop who infiltrated Vin's inner group, after proving himself when everyone else was home drinking malt liquor and fooling around, FORSAKING their leader. SHOCKING SCENE, THAT.Are you getting the picture yet that you go to see this movie, or buy or rent it, for  the sheer fun of it? It's all stunts ( very good stunts...) and action, and it's all VIN VIN VIN.There hasn't been an action hero like him since Arnie in his prime, and I anticipate a fabulous future for him, as for some reason he radiates honesty and goodness (which means kids will like him too, like Spiderman), as well as charisma and........MUSCLE.thanks, jean
2013-05-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is really good this conpleted my whole collection comes with a bonus new excellent and really fast shipping I love it and so does my family go fast and furious!!!
2014-01-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is an old movie, the one that started the series, but is still fun and enjoyable. You really should own all of them, if you own any of them, as each following movie builds off of the previous, as far as the characters are concerned, etc.
2001-10-14	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you like cars then this is the movie for you. Don't get me wrong there is a plot and a story line but it's mostly about really fast cars. This is a really great action movie with some minor plot twists that add to the movie as a whole.
2002-01-04	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I totally loved this movie, i've always liked cars and are very interseted in them (well fast ones) anyways so natuarally i would like this movie,and there was a few extremly attractive guys in it, so thats a big plus,This movie could have been better most of the cars featured in this film, were imports which is ok,but i may be speaking for more people than myelf when i say they should have used ''better cars'' Our generation digs fast and LOUD cars, no bumble bees aloud, i personally would have rather seen vipers, Z28's, mustangs, gto's, more so like the charger sure the cars in the movie was fast but think of how much faster they would have been if the cars were fast in the first place NO 4 BANGERS ALOUD,but anyways im gonna shut up now, but it really was an awesome movie.later
2013-06-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	C'mon it's the first furious - I can't count how many times I've watched this through the years.Awesome. Really.
2002-07-13	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I loved this movie! I loved the story, all the actors, everything about it! I've watched this movie at least 5 times, and it never gets boring! Thumbs up!!!!
2002-01-08	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	When I watched this movie I thought it was just going to be about cars and how they look when they are hooked up, but when I watched it I noticed it wasn't all just about cars but it had a good meaning behind it.  It's about friendships that people make and how strong they can get in such a short amount of time ( the cars are just a bonus).  This movie had such a good plot behind it, with everything from cars to friendships to love and understanding.  I think this movie is worth 5 stars because it touches apon important things like -friendship -love -trust -family -understanding and forgivness. That is why I loved this movie.  There is nothing they could change to make this a better movie.  The cars where also perfect!
2002-01-03	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The cars are fast.  The cinematography accents the film perfectly and gets the blood pumping even faster.  No, it's not the best movie and no the acting isn't top-notch, but Vin Diesel makes the film more than worth watching.  Sometimes movies are made for pure enjoyment and to get the viewer excited.  This is one of those films.  Sit back relax and avoid caffeine, because once the movie starts your heart won't need anything else.  I also recommend that you stay home after watching the film.  Watching this movie almost triples your chance of getting a speeding ticket.
2013-10-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I like the series, so buy them all for myself and also to send to my brother since he likes movies with cars and action in them.
2002-01-01	5.0	1	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is like my favorite movie = i loved it so much. It's action packed, and funny and everything else u want in a movie. I was entertained every minute of it. i would recommend this movie to anyone!
2002-02-09	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Ok This was a great movie! It's great 4 anyone there are cars and Girls for the Guys and Cars and Guys for the Girls. Ok Vin Diesel Shows some SKIN! omg!! The acting was awesome so were the car scenes and all of the extra footage. The Actors and actress's were great too. The story line was good and it really put together good.
2001-07-18	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	the fast and the frurious is one of the best movies I've seen. I recamend it to anyone that enjoys fast and shocking movies!ITS ALL ABOUT THR STREET RACERS
2014-06-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	yes its the one that started it all. fast cars, fast girls, guys on opposite sides of the law, what more can you ask for...action at 500 hp
2003-01-23	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	okay, let's accept this movie for what it is. it's a bunch of guys running around in fast and flashy cars. what did you expect?? deep, heartfelt, emotional moments??all I hear is that the acting is &quot;b&quot; rated, and I agree to a point. if you carefully listen to all that is said, the dialogue pretty much is exactly what any of us would say and how we would say it.in movies acting is generally over done. that's what keeps us interested. the people in the movies say and do things in ways people would never do in real life. if you listen to what the actors are saying in this movie, you'll notice that they use common, everyday words and voice tones. is it boring? relatively speaking, I guess it is. but it ads a bit of realism to it. it comes across as if you're not so much watching a movie as you are a fly on the wall; listening in on every-day people's conversations. am I the only one to notice this subtlety?I admit I found plenty of mistakes, from N20 lines scraping the ground, an engine that has &quot;direct-port nitrous injection&quot; as WELL as a &quot;fogger system&quot;, hearing how the guys isn't &quot;double clutching like you should&quot; (you double clutch when DOWN shifting or during heel/toe driving), floorboards that fall out of cars but suddenly reappear, etc. but who cares? it's not a DOCUMENTARY.I think the movie came across EXACTLY how it was intended.even with a few production mistakes and some non-conventional acting/dialogue/scripting I really enjoyed this movie. in fact I bought it and watch it nearly every week.
2001-07-19	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	It was really cheesy, but I love it for some reason.
2001-10-23	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I Can't Wait for this DVD...This movie is probably the best, most adrenalin pumpin', Street racing, Car movie I've even seen.This movie iz awsome...If I hadn't pre-ordered it, and I saw it in the stores, It'ld be gone in less than 60 seconds.5 stars definately.
2002-06-08	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is just what its suppose to be. Its filled with fast cars, hot guys and tough chicks. The story line reminds me Point Break. Ya know the whole cop going undercover to find the crooks and getting in tangled in their lives so much he doesnt want to let it go. But I loved Point Break and I loved The Fast and the Furious. Vin Diesel and Paul Walker are exceptionally hot and and Michelle Rodriguez does what she does best...acts like a tough chica who can hang just as well as the guys. I recommend this movie to anyone who is looking for an adrenalin ride of fun.
2001-10-16	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	OK -- let me start by saying I fit almost the categories that other reviewers have said won't like the movie. I'm a over 40, book reading, classical music listening, sci-fi loving, guy who drives Volkswagon.Be that as it may, this is the only movie I've gone to see more than once this summer. Yeah, the plot is rusty, and the dialogue isn't up to Academy Award standards, but it's flat-out a lot of fun. Good looking cars and babes and slick editing make for a great guy movie to escape into. And from what I've been reading, the leads make it less than repelling to the female viewer.Oh, the Volkswagon is a turbo bug ---- bye bye.....
2002-01-03	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious is a well made fun ride with a familar plot and a weak ending but still it's really good. It's plot is sort of like Point Break with cars instead of surf boards. With Paul Walker as an undercover cop who gets close to the people that just might be the ones committing high way robbary from truck drivers. Walker has the cocky driver role down right but he doesn't look right as a cop to me, must be the pretty boy look. Vin Diesel is da man as usual the though, he has a real career ahead of him as either just an actor or a flat out kick ass action star. The Fast and Furious leaves you wanting more car chases and more action and I really hope we get more with a sequel.
2011-02-10	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Although this movie may not be a cinematic masterpiece, it's full of enough "guy stuff" that I feel that I must watch it every time I see it on TV.Ever since I first saw "The Fast and the Furious" in theaters the day it opened, it has intrigued me.  I think the cast is actually pretty strong, and the story is pretty solid.  It's filled with action and it's got lots of guy eye candy like girls and cars.Overall, I enjoy the movie immenseley.This DVD is a good copy of the film.  The extras aren't that great, but the picture and sound quality are really good.If you like TF&TF;, this is a good representation of the film.
2002-11-06	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	they did a good job but they have some things that just are not right. two nitrous systems on one car, double clutching what are these guys driving semis or something.i like the action scenes and they got some nice cars but man do they have some &quot;ricey&quot; cars. i think that the movie was good for being the first one out on this subject.i think its a great movie for the winter time when we cant go out and race!well just see how many stupid ppl come out and see the second one because all of a sudden to many dumb ppl have been coming out with there neon kits and thinking there cars are fast!
2001-05-25	3.0	10	25	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Yes, it's fast. Yes, it's furious. Original, it 'ain't. Substitute Patrick Swayze for Vin Diesel, Keanu Reeves for Paul Walker, and surfboards for tricked-out Honda Civics and you've got Point Break with outlaw street racers. The overall picture is still good. The sound is awesome. Just don't expect any depth or sophistication story-wise. Oh, and the ending does differ from Point Break just slightly. This movie has kewl cars, hot chics, snappy dialogue, boneheaded cops, and even the Japanese are the bad guys in this summer flick. If the sound of engines revving bothers you, don't bother buying a ticket. Lots of chrome, NOS, burned rubber, and sub-compact fun.
2001-06-24	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	As I was sitting watching it all I could think of was Point Break.  It was more or less point break with some kick a$$ cars.  I would recomend it to the the sport compact crowd, but not the old timers.  It is a must buy as soon as it comes out on video.  It was more than just racing, there really was a plot and a point which just sweetened the pot.
2002-01-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This film is the best film of 2001! It is a must see for anyone even remotely intereted in cars. Excellent!
2002-01-03	1.0	1	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I knew when I rented this movie that it wasn't going to be an intellectual tour de force, or an excercise in brilliant writing or Oscar nomination material.I did however expect some exciting and well done chase scenes. Instead what I got were a bunch of cluttered, ill defined shots of what used to be good cars chasing each other needlessly, recklessly and carelessly by a bunch of no good kids who need a dope slap, a real dose of reality and some honest work.This movie showcases what is wrong w/society and values today. To make matters worse, it glamorizes and endorses dangerous driving, terrible music and anti social behavior.I could forgive any of this had the movie been filmed well and realistically. The editing was terrible, there was no continuity within what was supposed to be the same chase.Also, I'd be fascinated to know how each of these cars managed to get a seemingly unlimited amount of nitrous. Don't they come in small bottles and last for about 30 seconds each? Wish my car had the fuel capacity these third world slot cars do.Save yourself some money, some time and rent a movie that has interesting people, interesting cars and superb chase scenes. Bullit, The French Connection, and What's Up Doc are three that come immediately to mind. With those movies you get a bonus; decent acting, professional photography, and a good screenplay.The Fast and the Furious needs to come in for a major tune up, tear down and a frame up restoration. It's too bad that the screenplay wasn't stolen with the contents of one of the trucks.Save your money and play a similar arcade game. You'll have more fun, and get a bigger rush.
2001-10-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious is easily pushin for the best of just about any modern movie.  Some of the cars in their are about as pimp as pimp can get.  I think Van Diesel played a sweet role in the movie and was pretty damn hardcore.  I thought the Toyota Supra was one of the sweetest cars I have ever seen.  After I saw the movie I had total different approach on driving. I cant wait for it to come out on DVD. The girls were lookin pretty fine in the movie too so i guess over all in the package deal it was just a 5 star movie any way you look at it.  If all Van Diesels movies are that good hes gonna have a heck of a career.
2002-08-05	3.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Brazen, young cop infiltrates an underground gang to solve daring robberies, falls for gang leaders gal [sister], must eventually choose between new family and career.  Sound familiar?  Yes, so clich&eacute;d that it could be read straight out of Point Break among other things it manages to barely find its own shallow identity.  Despite the obvious parallels, Vin Diesel = Patrick Swayze [now 50, btw, yikes] I found F&amp;F an amusing, speed pumped view.  Of course this film isn't about plot, or character development, everyone is just along to set up the race and robbery scenes.  Played at that level it works well, and gives voice and visions to every fan boy strapping on a coffee can to their exhaust and adding stickers to the windows of their beaters.  I suppose we could fault it for contributing to some abominations seen on the streets lately, but as a simple action flick it's passable now that it's playing free on premium channels.
2011-01-03	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Great film from my youth I was like 11 when this film came out. Brings back old memories of simplier days. This film is cult classic that is a must watch, just like FIght Club. A rocking soundtrack, fun scenes, cool actors, etc. Great film, watch it and enjoy!
2002-01-11	4.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	(...). It's not "The Road Warrior" either, but it's the closest thing to it within (almost) the last 20 years in regards to providing the same high-octane thrills as derived from that ultimate 20th Century form of human self-expression, the severely customized automobile.>Paul Walker (who looks like a cross between C. Thomas Howell and Timothy Hutton, but maybe I'm dating myself here a bit) and Vin Diesel's relationship make what has been routinely slagged off as a "Donnie Brasco re-telling" a lot more interesting than just some dialogue in between stunt driving scenes (said stunt driving scenes in themselves are worth the price of ownership, however). An empathy for both characters develops without the viewer even being aware of it...the result is a series of plot twists and something of a surprise ending that leaves the door open for...yes, a sequel franchise. Couldn't you just see it coming?>Maybe the first decade of the 21st Century will compete with the 1970's for the right to be remembered as "The Golden Age of Car movies". There are enough homages to prior films (adequately covered in Rob Cohen's fantastic commentary track) to suggest that this movie was more than just an exploitation flick for motorheads...it comes across as a director's labor of love. Seriously.>Oh, and with a nod of respect I personally appreciated all that much more, the "baddest ride" in this video showroom of vehicular art IS a relic from the Age of Muscle Cars (and Steve McQueen's "Bullitt"), the manliest car ever built, the Dodge Charger R/T, including (if the gods are kind) the supercharged 426 hemi. Can I get an "AMEN" (or at least a "HOO-WAH")?
2001-07-05	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	this is a bad to the bone movie. all you young guy's must see it. it brings back memories when i was in high school racing cars. on friday and sat. nights.
2001-10-14	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I HAVE TO SAY THAT THIS IS ONE HELL OF A FILM FOR THOSE WHO ARE SPEED FREAKS LIKE MYSELF.
2001-11-28	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I am not a 'tunerhead,' 'gearhead,' or anything else that is associated with street racing. I really liked this movie however, and the review about it being like Point Break is correct. The plot line is the same but it is based on much cooler stuff. How many people can relate to surfing? How many can relate to suped-up cars on their streets? At first I didn't want to go see it because I thought I would be surrounded by Civics with funny blue lights in the parking lot, but after getting over my apprehension I loved the flick. All ages (ok, maybe not Grandpa) will like this movie.Vin Diesel is one of the hottest actors of the past few years, and for good reason. His part in the movie was right on for him. Plus the chicks are hot (who cares if THEY can act?). Just hit your nitrous and go see it.
2004-11-19	1.0	9	16	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is a movie I'm sure Vin Diesel does'nt really want to admit he did,but it was a shoe-in for Hollywood.The street race scenes were exciting but there were'nt many to speak of,nor did they last long.While this film is better than it very badly made sequel,this film still sucked.There was nothing memorible about it to speak of.I would not want to own this film,it would be a waste.Maybe it is exciting for teenages,but it lacks most everything that makes a movie memorible&watchable in the first place.Its not worth paying for,but you can figure that one out on your own
2004-03-05	1.0	9	16	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I am just going to keep this short:1. Irresponsible movies like this one which are geared towards stupid and impressionable teens are partly to blame for countless of traffic tragedies.2. The acting (and I use this turn loosely) is so bad you actually think this is a SNL skit.3. The plot is moronic at best.4. The actual racing is not even remotely impressive.5. How they made a sequel to this trash is more baffling than Astro-Physics.
2008-11-12	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is sweet.  Do not expect this movie to be a cinematic classic, it is fun, just because that is what it was made for.  Entertaining and the extra features on the HD disc are cool too.  It has nice rides and excellent racing scenes.  Aside from most movie crticism, it is fun to watch with friends.
2002-07-05	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious looks like any car lover's dream movie. Granted, it is. But it's more than just a car movie. It has plot. In fact, it has a good and detailed plot. It tells the story of a guy (Paul Walker) who mistakenly is taken up by a group of streetcar racers, and deals with the world of streetcar racing. Yet, there is something much more behind the new guy. I would give that away, but it surprised me when I watched the movie, so I won't spoil it.The first thing, even before the plot, anyone will noticed about The Fast and the Furious are its intense action sequences. There's plenty of them, and all are enjoyable to watch. And they're not all just placed there so there will be an action sequence. They deal with the story. The next is its stars. They are a few known faces in this film. Vin Deisel and Paul Walker lead the cast. Actually, this film is Vin Deisel's film. He portrayed his character very well, and made him very believable. I can't say the same for Paul Walker. Even though he faired well, the way he handled some of his dialogue just seemed out of place to me. Michelle Rodriguez and Jordana Brewster level the film out with estrogen, and do it well. Both ladies played their characters well. Even though Rodriguez got stuck with her usual typecasting. There are also few subplots going throughout the movie, but are never really confusing nor downplay the entertainment value of the movie.The Fast and the Furious DVD is a must have for it's full of entertaining supplements to keep you busy for a while. And the film itself, well of course, it's quiet worth the purchase also.
2003-11-08	5.0	1	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is the best movie ever!!!! The whole movie, you are on the edge of your seat waiting for the next spectacular event to happen. This is one thriller you dont wanna miss out on! All nascar and racing fans, this is the movie for you!
2001-06-25	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	this movie is all about the cars, and the cars they show are incredible. that is the most important thing. great street cars, great girls, vin diesel, but a sad plot. oh well, i went to the movie to see great cars, and that is what i got.
2013-02-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	this movie states the start of the series a must have for any fan i recommend it for the classic action if your into that kind of stuff
2001-12-22	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Quite surprisingly I found this to be one of the most entertaining movies of the year.  While it is certainly not an oscar worthy movie, it is simply a movie that entertains.  The action is amazing and seeing a movie about the world of import racing was something I've been waiting for and this movie didn't disappoint.  The only problem is the misrepresentation of the true import racers.  While it is true that people of various nationalities do participate in this import scene, the majority of the people are Asians.  And I found it sad that they could only fit Asians in as the bad guys or as background people.  Come to my town of West Covina and I guarantee you that every five minutes you will find an Asian driver, male or female, behind a customized, dropped import car.  Still, I found myself enjoying this movie tremendously and the DVD has some amazing features.  If you have a home theater system, the sound is awesome.  Definitely a must buy for you action fans.
2004-12-24	4.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	From probably the only female reviewing this movie, and a female who can't stand action flicks... if Vin tickles your senses, you'll dig this movie.  Sure the cars are fun, it's loaded with testosterone, and you are glad that justice is served against the 'bad guys' in the end, but most important: It serves up plenty of eye candy.  There is one (too brief) scene between Vin and his gal that offers enough to keep your own imagination going for awhile.  Plot?  Is there EVER REALLY a GOOD plot in an action movie?  Do we really care about the fact that we never get back to Road Wars or whether someone is racing with a laptop on the passenger seat?  We're not looking for reality- and I think I speak for both the boys and girls on this one.  Really now... please.  (And girls, if you are looking for more Vin, check out XXX.)
2012-11-22	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I ORDERED THIS ITEM PREVIOUSLY VIEWED FROM ONE OF THE SELLERS. IT ARRIVED IN EXCELLENT CONDITION. ALL THREE DISCS WAS IN IT'S CASE, AND IT'S DIGITAL COPY CODE WAS IN IT ALSO. IT CAME GOOD AS NEW, JUST AS IF I BOUGHT IT IN AN ELECTRONICS STORE. BUT, A LOT CHEAPER BECAUSE I BOUGHT IT USED. WHAT I HIGHLY RECOMMEND WHEN BUYING USED DVD AND BLU-RAY MOVIES, IS TO LOOK AT THE CONDITION EACH SELLER HAS IT IN AND THEIR COMMENTS TO MAKE SURE THE PRODUCT IS TO YOUR LIKING. I WOULD AIM FOR IT'S CONDITION TO BE GOOD, VERY GOOD, OR LIKE NEW. FOR THE COMMENTS, I WOULD MAKE SURE THAT THE PRODUCT HAS IT'S CASE AND ARTWORK, AND EVEN IT'S DIGITAL CONTENT, SO IT WOULD ARRIVE JUST LIKE I GOT IN THE STORE. I WOULD AVOID PRODUCTS THAT'S IN ACCEPTABLE CONDITION. UNLESS I DIDN'T MIND IT NOT COMING WITH ITS CASE AND ARTWORK, AND ITS DIGITAL COPY AND CODE. BUT, IN THE OTHER CONDITIONS SPECIFIED, IT SHOULD ARRIVE GOOD AS NEW.  I HAD GREAT SATISFACTION WITH THIS ITEM, DUE TO MY EXPERIENCE WITH PURCHASING USED DVD AND BLU-RAY MOVIES. YOU CAN TOO! HAVE A GOOD DAY, AND A HAPPY THANKSGIVING.
2013-12-10	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I enjoyed this movie even though as a rule I don't watch action movies. I wanted to see Paul Walker and found that he is a good actor
2012-12-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	this was a gift and I think they have watched it many times. it came in the mail in great time.
2002-01-08	5.0	2	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I loved this movie the first time I saw in the Summer of 2001.In an otherwise mundane Summer,&quot;Fast &amp; Furious&quot;  heated it up a bit.Staring Vin Diesel,the fierce Michelle Rodugeriz,and Paul Walker,(Ja Rule has a couple of bit parts in it too)this movie is exciting and just damn good.No cheesy car scenes here,folks or bad scripts(even out of datemovie critics liked this movie).I  don't want to tell anybody the plot though 'cause that'll ruin it for you but you gotta see this movie!(I can't wait for &quot;The Fast &amp; The Furious 2&quot; to be in theaters).
2013-10-10	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I have all of them and if you miss watching  any of them from the beginning to the last you miss a lot.  They always leave you a little hint as to what is coming in the next movie.
2014-01-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Credible story, fast cars, but the coolest thing are the races and chases. The movie hyper-shows the feel of the cars and the speed.If you like cars and speed, and, of course, Mr. Diesel, then you're set. GO!
2009-04-04	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The summer of 2001 was chock full of great movies for audiences to feast their eyes upon. Within that assortment of entertainment there was one film that stepped out of the shadows of obscurity to become one of the biggest surprise hits of the year. That film is the adrenaline-fueled thrill ride known as "The Fast and the Furious" starring Vin Diesel ("A Man Apart") and Paul Walker ("Varsity Blues"), and directed by successful action director Rob Cohen ("xXx").On the streets of Los Angeles, in the world of street racing, there is only one question you must answer to in order to win the day: Are you faster than all other contenders standing next to you? For undercover LAPD officer Brian O'Connor (Paul Walker), that question is one that he is determined to answer at any cost by taking down the one man that rules the street racing life, Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel). However, can Brian remain loyal to his brothers in blue while at the same time becoming immersed into this fast-paced world of cars, money, and women?My initial reaction when I saw the first trailers for this film was one of indifference. Based on the trailer the film seemed to be just an endless supply of racing sequences, close-ups of cars, women, and so on and so forth, with not much of anything else really holding the experience together. While each of those items I mentioned are on display in this film (and I'm not complaining about that in the least), there also happens to be plenty of story to tie it all together in a very cohesive fashion that I found surprising for a movie like this.The story, written by Gary Scott Thompson ("Hollow Man"), Erik Bergquist, and David Ayer ("Training Day"), is a non-stop ride filled with intense racing, character development (surprisingly enough), drama, and even a little bit of romance. I thought it was wise for the writers to take the time to actually build-up relationships between the characters, especially the two leads. Thus allowing the audience to get to know them and relate to them, so that even when they do things that we know isn't completely legal, we still side with them due to our connection. The inclusion of the theme of loyalty was also a very nice touch and in the end was the overall theme for the entire film. Many times a film's theme(s) are beaten endlessly into the audience so that they don't miss the main message of the film; however, in this instance the question of loyalty amongst the film's characters is handled in a much more realistic fashion. Only a few instances is it really touched upon in an overt way, and rarely does it feel forced into the storyline as a way to catch up those audience members that might not be comprehending the underlying theme. For a film that at first glance appeared to be a brainless actioner for the adrenaline junkies, the well-developed storyline really took me on a much more enjoyable ride than I initially thought possible.For a movie like this to succeed several key factors must fall into place, among them it must have the combined talents of stunt drivers, computer wizards, and of course a director accustomed to action films to hold it all together. The stunt drivers in this film have got to be without a doubt some of the best in the business, if not the very best. The tricks they achieve are truly stunning, and sure some of them benefited from CGI enhancement, but even with that assistance there was plenty of realism involved to serve as the basis for the technical wizards to draw upon. As for director Rob Cohen, he tends to be one of those directors that creates very entertaining movies for the general public, but finds himself maligned by most critics. With "The Fast and the Furious" I believe that Rob has actually crafted what could be his best and most comprehensive movie to date, and as a person that has enjoyed many of his films, it's a shame he's not more appreciated by most film critics.And finally, we cannot forget the cast of talented up-and-comers that brought these characters to life. Portraying the film's two leads are Vin Diesel and Paul Walker. Another part of why this film found bigger success than was expected (at least in my opinion) is due to the brotherly type of relationship between Dominic and Brian that develops over the course of the film. Had their scenes not felt so realistic and natural, this movie would have fallen apart at the seams in an instant.Regarding the actors individual performances let's start off with Vin Diesel. For the majority of Vin's work he ends up criticized for being a one-note performance type of actor, which normally means he's best suited for the action genre; however, in this film there are a couple of times where he lets down the machismo armor and allows a gentler side come to the fore. It's in these times, and in other films he's done (i.e. "A Man Apart" or "Find Me Guilty"), where Vin shows that there is more depth to him than most critics give him credit for. As for Paul Walker, I typically find him to be a decent actor, albeit with a little too much laid back, surfer dude quality imbued within every performance he gives. However, for this film, it is that very quality that seems to make him an ideal choice to play the character of Brian O'Connor. And for the most part, his performance in this movie is actually quite good, only a couple of instances he seemed like he rushed some lines or was a bit stiff, overall it was one of the stronger performances in his career.Supporting the two leads are actresses Michelle Rodriguez ("Resident Evil") and Jordana Brewster ("Annapolis"). Both actresses do well with their respective roles; although, for me personally I would have preferred a little more work had been put into developing Jordana's character a bit further. It seemed that her character was essentially there for two reasons, to serve as the catalyst for getting Brian mixed up with Dominic's crew, and secondly, to be Brian's love interest so that all the ladies in the audience would have a little bit of romance to enjoy. Jordana's character of Mia seemed like she could have been a more interesting character given the opportunity, but I guess the writers just didn't really know what all to do with her. As for Letty (Michelle Rodriguez), she was a different kind of character than I expected, because in essence she was just a female version of Dominic. Just like Mia, Michelle's character was mostly used as a love interest and strong female character for the ladies to relate to. Unlike Mia though, I didn't really find Letty to be all that interesting and worthy of receiving any further screen time, especially since most of her background was summed up in a matter of sentences and beyond that I didn't feel any further exposition was warranted."The Fast and the Furious" was not only a surprise hit at the box office, but also a surprise for me as well. As I stated before, I wasn't expecting a whole lot from the movie, but upon watching it I found that I was sorely mistaken in that assumption, and extremely entertained at the same time. This film is definitely a lot of fun, especially for car guys, but even if you're not, there is plenty in this film to keep you entertained and in my opinion leave you wanting more."The Fast and the Furious" is rated PG-13 for violence, language, and sexuality.
2002-01-04	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Holy...this is a great movie. The speed, and the action is so awesome, you won't even have time to blink! You'll love this movie especially if your a guy (though i disagree with the people who say it's ONLY for guys, cuz it's not.) get this now!
2001-06-25	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and The Furious is an exciting movie whether or not you like cars and racing. It is fun and a good movie that will keep you going to the end. Fast-paced with lots of action, this movie will appeal to many people. 5/5 Stars, because this is the best movie I have seen in a VERY long time.Final Grade: A+  Recommended Very Much!!...
2002-01-25	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I think it is sad that these people writing these reviews are so mad and critical about a movie that was created for the sole purpose of portraying an underground car club.  Have you ever heard of FICTION?????  It's an interesting concept where people ignore their dismal, ordinary lives and actually try to enjoy a movie about fast cars and hot women.  I know that it's hard to do this when you are driving a primer-spotted metro, but seriously, where has the sense of adventure and imagination gone.  If you ever had the experience to drive a car like the ones in this movie, you wouldn'd know what do do.  You have to respect the workmanship that went into these cars and the imagination that went into the customization of them.  I happen to know from experience that a modified fuel injected V6 or 4-cylinder can outrun most carbourated V8's.  To the reference about the V8's doing wheelies, it's a combination of rear-wheel drive and POWER.  Please don't criticize things that you know NOTHING about!
2002-01-23	1.0	2	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Aside from the bad acting and only one hot chick throughout the movie, the storyline is a complete and total rip off "Point Break".  Insert neighborhood families' beef for surfers', and heisting 18-wheelers for robbing banks as the ex-pres.  Paul Walker can't even out act Keanu's "I am an FBI agent!" in this one.  He let's Vin Diesel go in the same manner that Patrick Swayze is allowed to surf because they "won't go back man".  If you like cars, that could be the saving grace.  Otherwise, "Point Break" is still a classic that was poorly copied.
2009-11-13	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Many people did not like this film but its solid enough in my opinion to interest some. Besides, there are very few original movies this days and I'm not saying this is one but people should not expect that much from studios these days.
2013-06-04	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Love this movie! I just wish you had more than 24 hours to watch rentals on amazon. Be sure to watch all the sequels.
2003-12-08	5.0	0	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is EXCELLENT in almost every way.  It starts off with a guy on a cell-phone telling somebody on the other line that this truck with Rodgers on the side is coming their way.  Then three or four honda with green lights under the car pull a stunning stagcoach like robbery.  Then, a cut to DODGER stadium and an absolutely gorgeous Green mitsubishi eclipse pulls up with the star Brian O' Conner inside.  He races himself and tops out at about 140 mph.  Brian then goes to a grocery store/restaurant where Dominic(Vin Diesel)works.He fights Dom's best friendVince and gets in hot water.  Brian then goes to race Dom and three other bustas and stupidly enough bets his car and loses it.  But, the cops come out of nowwhere and Brian saves Dom from the police.  They both are then pursued by Johnny Tran, Dom's arch-rival.  Then, Johnny blows up the eclipse and for some reason Dom still think Brian owes him the car.  WHY, itwas your fault he got his car shot up to hell.  Then, Brian earns trust from Dom only to stab him in the heart when he reveals that he is an undercover cop out to crack the case.  This movie is truly MAGICAL.  It might not have the greatest plot, but it blends good actors with beautiful cars well.  Rob Cohen is an awesome director and this movie is much greaterthan ANY OF HIS PREIOUS WORK.  The only bad things about this movie is that Ja-rule has a few lines and there could be more action with cars.  Some of the screenplay is downright dreadful, like the part where Jessie comes to Dom's house at the end and when Vince catches Brian snooping around Hector's garage.  Hector is a hispanic who is a suspect of the truck-hijackings, but is soon ruled out of the picture once Brian learns that Dominic is a troubled man with a past that would mess anybody's head up.  No wonder this movie made so much money!
2014-01-15	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A must own movie for the actors and the way it is put together. You just cant walk away from watching this or you will miss something.
2002-01-07	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is an action pacted movie, with all the excitement of Gone in 60 Seconds.  If you like films about fast cars,and adventure, you'll love this.  This shows what a great actor Vin Diesel is and how he is going to come strong on the scene.  The cars portrayed in this movie are beautiful and exciting, for women it is a exciting way to enjoy the race scene, and for men it is just plain enjoyable.  I recommend this movie to everyone, young and old alike.
2013-08-13	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Do I really need to say why this one is great? I like to watch this movie whenever I feel nervous about learning stick shift. It is great inspiration.
2001-07-17	4.0	4	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	It's been said before, but I'll say it again, TF&amp;TF is the movie that Gone In 60 Seconds wanted to be.It's a good (but not great) movie, and I found myself entertained from the first frame until the last.  A good action movie has to have a decent plot and character development; unless you have the audience interested and/or emotionally involved, the big action sequences won't be exciting and are interesting only on a techinical level.That said, Vin Diesel is the key to this movie.  He is a phenominal actor and brings a great deal of presence to the character of Domininc Toretto. His mannerisms and understated acting make Toretto a more fully fleshed out charcter - a lesser actor couldn't have done this.  Dominic Toretto is not a swaggering bully macho-man, but comes across as secure in himself and even (gasp!) deeply loving.Comments have been made about Paul Walker's Keanu Reeves-esque delivery.  I think Walker did a fine job as Brian O'Conner given what he had to work with...a character who *has* to come across as being something of a good natured, cruising through life, slacker-boy in order to believably infiltrate Toretto's team.I wish the characters of Letty and Mia had been more fully fleshed out. One of the things I liked about these characters is that both of them were strong minded, independent women, who were not dominated by or subserviant to men.  (Which is one example of the way both the male and female characters were more interesting and less cliched than most action movie characters usually are.)So, we have decently developed characters whose motives and experiences we can relate to. Add a nice twist filled plot about an undercover police officer investigating a series of truck hijackings and cargo thefts.  After being fed several red herrings we discover who is really behind these crimes.From a technical point of view, the action sequences are nicely put together and well paced.  But, because the movie makes you actually *care* about these charcters, they become heart pounding adrenaline rushes.  The major action sequence is a big homage to The Road Warrior and is riviting.TF&amp;TF is not Film, it is not Art, but its creators know enough about those two to make a well crafted, highly entertaining movie.
2001-09-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If I had to pick one word to describe this movie, it would be &quot;phenominal&quot;. This movie has the best plot and it's action packed. It couldn't fit in one more unexpected twist. This is a down-right awesome movie, and your missing out if you don't watch it. I mean, what's not to love? Adventure? Action? Romance? Comedy? Suspence? This is a great movie.
2013-06-12	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I love this movie so much. Michelle Rodriguez all the way!!! All the fast an furious movies are amazing. Love them.
2001-12-02	4.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A great fast paced car movie that is enjoyable for almost anyone. I personally am a rodder (I build and race pre-'54 car), so I was expecting it to be a movie only &quot;tuners&quot; would like cause of the rice burners but turned out to be wrong. Also in the end, it becomes apparent that only a real man (or woman) has what it takes to drive real cars (ooooh, importboy afraid of the big bad charger!)
2002-02-12	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A non stop movie packed with fast cars and non stop adrenalin rush. These guys appreciate the speed and total ecstacy of driving fast in cool cars....it becomes their life! Enter Paul Walker..he's different from the other guys, he doesn't fit in. Yet when he shows them his car and his speed...he suddenly becomes a cool rider. The group he beomes involved with led by Vin Diesel are in constant battle with a dangerous clique who are willing to kill if they don't get what they're after. Its dangerous, fast and definately furious!!
2002-01-27	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Movie the Fast and the furious i must say is the best movie that i have seen in a long time! It s has exitment, drama, the best action and great acting by paul walker and vin disale.You coulkd watch this movie over and over!!! u get hooked on all the action. i must say it over and over u have to go out and see this movie!! its a great movie!!!
2011-03-11	5.0	0	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	yup it's THE best FF franchise. RX7 in red ( drove by vin diesel ) in the beginning is my one of two favorite  Tuner ( evo 8 in yellow in FF2 ) surpringly i'm not a fan of supra. i know they're powerful but just don't like they look.
2002-03-25	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you've ever seen Kathryn Bigelow's excellent 1991 surfing film "Point Break," starring Keanu Reeves and Patrick Swayze, there's absolutely no reason to buy or even rent "The Fast and the Furious" since it's a scene-by-scene rip off of the earlier film.The only major difference is that the the latter film substitutes the world of street-racing for the world of surfing.  Oh, there is one other difference, "Point Break" is actually a great film whereas the "The Fast and The Furious" is just a bad one.Paul Walker stars here as Brian, an undercover cop investigating street racing who inevitably finds himself "in too deep."  Vin Diesel stars as Dom, the head of a crew of street racers with whom Brian forms a friendship that threatens his objectivity and mission as a law enforcement officer.While many of the racing scenes are indeed stunning, one wishes director Rob Cohen had devoted the same level of loving attention on getting better performances out of his actors.  Walker is just bland, bland, bland and given that he's supposed to be the lead actor, this is not a good thing.  Therefore, it falls to the always charismatic Vin Diesel to save the day. He almost pulls it off but is ultimately sabotaged by the film's weak scripting.  Talented actresses Jordana Brewster(The Faculty) and Michelle Rodriguez(Girlfight)are wasted in arm candy roles as the love interests of Walker and Diesel respectively.  The other characters aren't even worth mentioning.If you've never seen "Point Break," skip this movie and get that one instead.  Unlike "Fast", that film manages to balance strong performances and characerizations with superb action sequences.As for the "Fast and the Furious," the only thing "furious" about this film is how you'll feel if you waste your money on it.
2012-11-10	2.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is about an FBI agent that goes undercover to expose a street racing gang for stealing electronics. They use the stolen electronics to get money enough to trick out their cars. That's pretty much the plot.I don't like this movie for 2 major reasons. Firstly, the film itself is bad. The acting and plot are poorly done, the saving grace of this film is the intense action. This movie also created a new counter culture of guys that drive like maniacs in their economy cars. These people are everywhere in their Civics painted ridiculous colors and raising hell sounding like weed eaters on steroids. These things added together make this a bad film. It's poor acting and plot, along with its negative impact on society, in my opinion make this a crappy movie. I know that movies are usually rated on their cinematic quality. This film had descent action and some good special effects, but that's it. The coolest things about this movie were the Dodge Charger and the Toyota Supra. Those 2 cars were awesome. As for the tricks they perfomed, most of them are impossible. As an automotive technician I found myelf laughing at some of the things they portrayed the cars doing. All in all this movie was really thin. It's not worth owning.
2005-07-11	5.0	3	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is one of my favorites despite all the critism it receives. This movie had changed the scene of the underground car world. Great story, good cast of actors, pretty good acting, great ensemble of cars(except for the Maxima & Jetta) and appropriate soundtrack. Its a view of the street scene on the Westcoast where it all started. Being a car enthusiast/import tuner, i knew the movie wasnt entirely accurate - especially with the technical lingo used. The movie was shot in places that i was familiar with (LA area) so it was something i could relate to. Paul Walker(Brian)  and Jordana Brewster(Mia) had a great onscreen chemistry. Vin Diesel's character was a great addition to the story. I believe this movie put Diesel on the showbusiness map and made him much more popular following his debut in Pitch Black in 1999. The scene in the movie that really got my attention was when the Supra and faced the Ferrari on Pacific Coast Hwy goin to Malibu. Being a MKIV Supra owner myself, i knew what Supras are capable of. So that much i knew was accurate. In a sense this movie immortalized the Supra. It also shows a bit of the old vs. the new school of street race cars. Overall, a good movie.
2004-05-14	1.0	2	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I'm not even going to waste my time with an in depthreview of why this movie makes me angry.All that's going for it are the cars.Save your money and buy midnight club 2.vin diesel is the worst actor since pamela anderson.
2002-01-06	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is about the underground import street racing that has become popular in the late 90's and still is going strong today.  If the movie had some more plot or some more action it would be better.  The racing scenes are not that spectacular and the plot is non-exsistent.  This movie would not be bad as a rental, but to buy it, save your money.  Maybe if the director had added about ten more minutes into the plot then it would have been ok, but he didn't and nothing really makes sense.  It seems everything happens way too quickly and we never understand what is happening.
2013-12-13	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Great movie! I had never watched any of them before now I am hooked. It is sad to have lost such a talented actor.
2001-07-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was one of the best movies i have seen all year...it was very supensful and thrillin, Michelle Rodgiquez did an excellant job (dats my fav. actress) so did paul walker and Vin Diesel (lookin good) i recommend this movie to anybody im going to see it again tonight for the 3rd time. Mad luv
2013-07-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This was the beginning it got you hook on the series that followed, the cars, the action, it was fast pace it was great.
2004-07-18	1.0	4	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I hate this movie. Do not buy or rent.
2001-08-07	5.0	18	24	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is so far the best movie I've seen all summer. But, most may not agree.The people that won't like it: People who don't know a thing about cars/engines. (i.e. People who think a TUNED Toyota Supra can't beat a &quot;Mid-life crisis&quot; Ferrari) People that are expecting more from the movie than just fast and furious driving, which it delivers! and delivers well.People who will like it: People who have a passion for cars and the technology behind it. People who appreciate high tech DOHC horsepower rather than the &quot;bigger is better&quot; approach that powers most OHV American vehicles. Oh, and any girls who like Paul Walker.So if you are looking for a intense, fun, highpowered ride of your life, see this movie. But if you are looking for a wonderfully scripted Oscar winning drama, go rent &quot;The Piano&quot; and try to keep from falling asleep.
2001-06-26	4.0	3	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	But in my case, the loud part isn't that good - especially when you sit so close to the... screen!But THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS does provide ample energy and action to an otherwise predictably lame plot. But the story, I assume, is about thieving bandits ripping off truck drivers, is sacrificed for a more entertaining reason - simply, illegal drag racing and a whole lot of scantily clad females and muscular men. Which is fine, only show that they have a decent enough reason for their motives.It's a good, but not great film. Vin Diesel, who in my opinion really can't act (voice makes him sound hollow and wooden), is Dominic Toretto, the cool-guy/ringleader of the gang of highly-charged youths; Paul Walker, another one who can't act, plays undercover cop Brian Spindler, who earns the respect of Dominic and also tries to solve the recent thefts; Michelle Rodriguez, Sundance darling for the film GIRLFIGHT, plays Dominic's firebrand girlfriend, Letty; and Jordana Brewster, former AS THE WORLD TURNS actress, plays Dominic's sister and Brian's love interest, Mia Toretto. There is also rapper Ja Rule, as a dragster named Edwin, who has a particular funny moment in the film involving "Monica" and a group of Vietnamese/American actors, Rick Yune and Reggie Lee as cousins Johnny Tran, who shares a history with Dominic, and Lance. (The Vietnamese group drive around in neato motorcycles!)Basically, it's your typical male testosterone vehicle for "up-and-coming actors" like Diesel, Walker, Rodriguez, and Brewster. My opinion? Uh, uh, not with this film! Sure, they may gleam in the 15 minutes of fame (due in part to the $40 million opening weekend), but soon they will run out of steam, and by they I mean the film and actors, just like a previous adrenaline-rush film called GONE IN 60 SECONDS - perhaps you've heard of it?In conclusion, it was loud, it was fast, and it certainly was furious, but do read too much into it - I haven't!
2002-10-05	3.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Lifting the plot directly from Point Break, The Fast and the Furious is a silly testosterone-fuelled action ride with hot chicks, outrageous stunts, loud cars, and an equally loud soundtrack. Director Rob Cohen seems to be playing it safe relying on the sure-fire formula of said girls and cars after the critically-mauled The Skulls (2000). And the film indeed does work well with all the elements that make a no-brainer movie like this a winner with audiences. Vin Deisel makes a stand-out performance as the main man of the late-night drag racing with NOS-fuelled hot rods, and Michelle Rodriguez provides enough eye candy for all the pre-pubescent boys. The story, as it is, is basically the same as Point Break, with Paul Walker as an undercover cop attempting to infilltrate the late-night speeders, then joining theit unique culture. The sub-plot involving gangsters feels like it's been tagged on to create more of a plot. And watching it from an objectional standpoint, this isn't very impressive or original. But Rob Cohen knows what brainless audiences want in an action flick like this, and in that caveat, it suceeds admirably. Turn up the volume, set your brain to half-mode and this is a winner.The DVD extras include a commentary from director Cohen, &quot;The Making of The Fast and the Furious&quot;, trailers, deleted scenes with optional director commentary, a visual effects montage, Exclusive featurette on editing for the MPAA, Interactive eight camera angle stunt sequence, Movie Magic interactive special effects, Storyboards to final feature comparison, Music Videos (from Ja Rule, caddillac, Tah and Faith Evans) and DVD ROM features.
2002-03-27	4.0	4	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Lifting the plot directly from Point Break (1991), The Fast and the Furious is a turbo-charged ride with hot women, outrageous stunts, loud cars, and an equally loud soundtrack. Director Rob Cohen seems to be playing it safe relying on the sure-fire formula of said girls and cars after the critically-mauled The Skulls(2000). And the film indeed does work well with all the elements that make a no-brainer movie like this a winner with audiences. Vin Deisel makes a stand-out performance as the main man of the late-night drag racing, and Michelle Rodriguez provides enough eye candy for all the pre-pubescent boys. The story, as it is, is basically the same as Point Break, with Paul Walker as an undercover cop attempting to infilltrate the late-night speeders, then joining theit unique culture. The sub-plot involving gangsters fells like it's been tagged on to create more of a plot, but who cares? Rob Cohen knows what audiences want in an action flick like this, and it suceeds admirably. Turn up the volume, set your brain to half-mode and this is a winner.
2002-05-12	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you like fast cars, cute guys, and best of all cute guys racing the fast cars then The Fast and the Furious is for you. This movie has a lot of action in it from the car racing to the shooting. I loved this movie because of the action. If you like movies with action then this movie is for you again.Paul Walker and Vin Diesel have great chemistry on the screen. They show what trust is all about and staying loyal to each other means to each other means. Paul Walker is a cop trying to find out who is stealing electronics from 18 wheelers to put i their cars. Paul Walker decides to race and try to fit in with the number one racer Vin Diesel. Paul Walker loses but for some odd reason he fits in with their group.Later on Vin Diesel finds out that Paul Walker is a cop when a steal from a 18 wheeler goes wrong and he has to call for an ambulance. When one of Vin Diesels men gets shot down he decides to go after them. This leads to a high speed chase. Finally Paul Walker makes it up to him for not telling him at first hes a cop. You will just have to see The Fast and the Furious to find out the rest.
2013-07-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is my favorite movie of all time, no matter how many times I watch it, it's still amazingly good.
2001-07-06	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie keeps you on the edge of your seat!  It is very fast paced and exciting.  It has an interesting twist that is unsuspected.  Pimped out cars with bad a** engines and lots of NOS.  If you liked Gone in 60 Seconds this movie will blow you away!  The music rocked through the whole movie.  They definitely need to make a sequal as you could do a whole lot past the ending of this film.  Highly recommended.
2001-12-27	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Don't get me wrong. I liked this movie. The races were fun to watch, and the storyline was interesting enough. However, I felt that it did not truly represent the true street racers or dragsters....that and it's more like a 2 hour NOS commercial.Why the heck would you race an RX-7 with a system that must have weighed like a ton in the truck? Or race any car that carries a 200 pound wing on the back? Oh no...one of the guys had a Motech exhaust on order....hehehehe....Bottom line, you will like it if you can overcome thinking how over the top this movie is.
2013-08-17	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is one of those movies that should go in a time capsule sent into deep space, so that aliens who want to know more about us can get just a glimpse of what we are all about.  It has a diverse cast, the theme of family, and of course, hot fast cars powered by tons of testosterone, including in the women.  I'd say that about sums up our human civilization in a nutshell.  Happy viewing, aliens.
2013-06-28	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I love action movies, especially ones with chase scenes, so this one definitely delivered in that aspect.  The writing, acting, and all the sorts of stuff that gets awards?  Who cares, it's not that kind of movie!  Attractive actors racing & chasing each other around in some awesome-looking vehicles.  It might not be great, but it's better than its sequels.
2014-04-10	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I have them all. I love them all. You couldn't go wrong with them if you like action movies with a great cast. I don't have alot of movie collections but I had to have this one. Again, I would recommend the entire collection. I enjoy watching a movie that is as entertaining as these.
2001-10-02	5.0	3	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	GREAT MOVIE. I'VE ONLY SEEN IT &quot;SEVEN TIMES.&quot; GOOD MOVIE ALL AROUND--BUT VIN DIESEL MAKES THE MOVIE. VERY GOOD ACTOR. ALL THE ACTORS IN &quot;THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS&quot; DID A REALLY GOOD JOB. I WOULD HIGHLY RECOMMEND IT TO EVERYONE.
2001-12-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is a great movie, its a present day representation of American Graphiti and Gone in 60 seconds(1974) except with an import car craze. it shows how cars never go out of style and they are just represented differently, of course im a little bit more partial to a 1967 Shelby GT500, but this is definetly worth getting.
2001-07-04	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This was a very exciting movie!!  Even though it's two and a half hours long, it totally doesn't feel like it.  It keeps you entertained the whole time.  I'm going to see it again.
2002-02-20	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I didn't think cars go ever go that fast.  The movie was a little slow at first, but it turned out to be very exciting.  The movie goes to show you what and how much you can actually put into a car.  Some of the movie was slightly fictional however there are many guys out there doing this, and it is becoming a common thing to try to have the 9 second car.
2014-01-10	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	It was good quality and the movie was delivered promptly and sealed. Great Movie! I would recommend it to everyone with a need for speed
2013-12-10	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Great movie! Great streaming from Amazon. But could not watch this via Google Chromecast when it was in full-screen mode or when it popped out. It would be great if Amazon could fix this! Would watch more from Amazon. Thank you!
2001-07-28	3.0	1	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	you talk about these built engines and these fast race scenes,  i can tell you that they picked those cars by what body kits were on them.  the cars had sparco seats because sparco paid to have their name in the movie same with all of the cars having NOS kits, not all racers run NOS if thats what you thought after that movie,  the white jetta was a wings west project car,  it has a body kit wheels and exhaust and is actually slow as hell.  in the drag race scene they were going 35 miles an hour then they sped up the film.  wow real fast.  it was a good movie im not saying i didnt like it.  i will just say that the people in the industry were pretty upset in the way the cars were picked, ... and wheres the german love, 1 german car, common.  they are already filming a fast and the furious 2,  i will be one of the first to go see it,  but not so much for the movie but for the gathering of everyone in the import scene in the parking lot of the theater-GrinGo
2009-04-01	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I have watched this movie several time and though it was great. Because I was not that knowledgeable about street racing I did not look for details to pick at. I just set back and enjoyed what I thought was a very good movie and I think Paul Walker did a great job as an undercover agent for  the FBI and local police to get to Dom (Vin Diesel) which I also thought he was very good. The street racing was exciting and very colorful.
2001-07-07	5.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Well, let me just start off by saying that I have seen this movie once for every week it's been out in the theatre, which is out of my character. This movie was an adrenaline rush from start to finish, I truly enjoyed it. I especially enjoyed seeing an unfamiliar cast do such a terrific job of acting. I'm no Siskel, but I do know this is a movie that I have every intention of buying; and I will watch it over and over. I was very drawn into the movie, feeling like I had just raced a 10-second car myself by the time I left the theatre. I would recommend this movie to men and women alike. It is a definite must see!
2002-01-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I loved this movie!  It was one of my favorites.  I loved all the characters, the two lead male characters were amazing!  I also liked the two lead female characters a lot!  This will continue to be one of my favorite movies of all time.
2003-07-13	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Released in 2001, The Fast and The Furious introduced us to the world of down-and-dirty street racing, with Vin Diesel and Paul Walker in the starring roles.The movie was a natural hit, with its buff guys, well-rounded women, fast cars and wild life. This isn't a movie about deep meanings and complex plots. It's a simple cop-infiltrates-gang, cop-falls-for-girl story that is pumping full of adrenaline and excitement.The movie does give a hard-edged view into life on the edge - the extras and cars in many scenes are real street racers who bring a realism into what they do. The characters don't have backgrounds, they don't have goals, and they don't have heroes to look up to. All they have is their gang, their immediate release in the rush of speed.As a woman who likes sportscars, I did actually enjoy much of this, and was very happy to see that there was a female mechanic on the team that was just as trusted as the rest of the guys. Only a few years ago, the girls would all be jumping on the sidelines while the guys did the driving. But this film lets a female driver blow away a male racer, and includes women who can stand on their own. Kudos for that!A fun, escapist fantasy to blow through a rainy evening with.
2002-02-13	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and The Furious DVD is defenetly a must have if you liked the movie.  It has a lot of extras that will keep you busy after you watch the movie.  The movie is an excellent action movie that delivers what it promises.  Do not expect a flawless story or intracate plot, but it does have some excellent acting and direction.  Good sountrack, nice looking cars (lots of imports and an awesome Charger).  Add it to your DVD collection.
2001-06-08	5.0	5	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	By the grace of just good luck I got to see THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS at a sneek preview last night. I can not compare this movie to any that I have seen to date. I have read reivews that the plot line follows &quot;Point Break&quot; but it is FAR BETTER than that and you will really be taken in by the movie. The action, racing, cars, women and are all great! I totally got into this movie, maybe it was becuase I am into the racing and show car scene but I also saw a few older people and press that were really impressed with the movie. I think that this is going to be one of the biggest movies of the summer. I know I would go back to see it again and again.
2012-01-11	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Charismatic Vin Diesel leaps to the top of the action heap portraying a new kind of hero: a no-nonsense daredevil of a "streetracer" who's "Fast" with the ladies and "Furious" with those who cross him, (hence the movie's title). Diesel oozes testosterone in every frame of this high-powered, thinking man's action pic that's sure to delight road scholars and the follically challenged.
2002-08-10	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Charismatic Vin Diesel leaps to the top of the action heap portraying a new kind of hero:  a no-nonsense daredevil of a &quot;streetracer&quot; who's &quot;Fast&quot; with the ladies and &quot;Furious&quot; with those who cross him, (hence the movie's title). Diesel oozes testosterone in every frame of this high-powered, thinking man's action pic that's sure to delight road scholars and the follically challenged.
2002-02-20	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I knew I would love this movie. It wasn't going to make me think and some movies are made to serve that purpose. The feeble plot revolves around carefree street racers who use their lifestyle as a facade for their bad-boy activites, which include hi-jacking trucks at 60 mph whilst clad in too-cool-for school black garb. If you think I gave away any of the plot, you're wrong. Even I didn't figure it out until it was blatantly obvious. Perhaps it had been obvious all along, if I hadn't checked my brain at the theater door. But as I said, I enjoyed it. Paul Walker's character of Brian might have been wooden and a total bore but Jordana Brewster was certainly nice to look at. A popcorn flick in top gear. Only speed-freaks need apply.
2002-01-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I am a car fanatic to start with, and have dreamed of owning a Toyota Supra Twin Turbo since I learned to drive in 1998.  It is still only a dream, but when I heard that this movie's feature car was a Supra I couldn't wait to see it.  I first saw the movie at the drive-in this past summer, it was awesome there, and I decided to buy it on DVD as soon as it came out.  I did just that, and you should too; as this movie might just be one of the coolest, fastest, and most addictive movies ever made.
2013-09-18	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is ok. The story gets your attention, there is a lot of action, but in my opinion it doesn't connect you with the characters very well.
2001-07-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	When I sat down to watch this film I wasn't exactly sure what had made me choose Fast and Furious. There were no actor names I recognized. I guess the trailer I'd seen last month made it look exciting. Wow, was it! I found myself becoming a techno music junkie and loved the loud and furious music. Dom was one cool dude and blondie had some killer blue eyes. I thought the ending was a bit abrupt and chancy - so much for the cops always coming out the winner, not here! Made me want to go out and buy a sportscar. **word to those who liked the music, the current soundtrack for Fast and Furious does not include the good stuff**
2014-07-03	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Oldie but goodie
2001-11-23	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is so cool i recommend it to everyone i saw it in theaters 5 times it is worth whatever price you have to pay, I love the combonation of sweet cars and hot women, and the semi gang wars going on in between. BUY THIS MOVIE!
2002-01-10	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is great, story just keeps flowing. Good cars *good for not V8's*, good drag scenes, and a sweet charger to top it off at the end. I was impressed with the sound, the DTS mixing is one of the best i have heard. I recommend this for sure, even if you dont like cars !!
2006-06-19	5.0	3	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Who doesn't like to drive fast? I'm pretty sure everyone does. Those guys in the movies are crazy, but it makes me want to drive like they do, and not get killed. Vin Diesel is his best in the movie. It's a very moving and interesting movie to watch.
2013-08-15	1.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The dvd was scratched and skipped in several places. It was described as used, like new, by the seller. I tried to play it in my regular dvd player, my xbox360, and a ps3 and it skipped in all of them. I guess this is a risk you take when buying a used dvd. No refund was available.
2001-07-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I apprehensively took my 12 year old son to this movie and was pleasantly surprised!  My son of course loved it, and I really enjoyed it also.  It was a fast paced car racing movie with a deeper plot about a young FBI agent who finds loyalty with the cons who he is supposed to be tracking down for a sting.  And of course, there are plenty of nice looking people to look at. :) I was wishing I was in High School again!
2013-06-13	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	It was a great movie.... lots of fun and fast loud cars.  Clean too so it the whole family watched it.
2002-09-22	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	ONE THING I LOVE ABT THIS MOVIE IS THE "NOS". ULTRA COOL. An the cop kid is a charlie chaplin who tries to become Arnie.No wonder he didnt climb the ladder after this movie.BUT VIN DIESEL IS REALLY A NATURAL. HES A REAL PRO. THE ONLY REASON I SAW THIS MOVIE IS BECOZ I LIKED VIN IN PITCH BLACK. The 3d engine mechanics sequences in the movie r quite good but not the best. The story line is very LOOOSE and does not actually leave u grippin onto ur seat. but Vins actin makes u sit here at least. No one wud sit there to see that wimp of a cop walkin around with a t-shirt to cover his skinny body.A real good movie fer those who like action with racing.
2003-01-07	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Just like the name says, it is a fast paced movie with some furious driving and acting.  The main reason that I like the movie is it aint like most action movies like XXX, it actually has a solid storyline and acting behind it.  Vin Diesel (playing as Dominic Toretto) makes his action-packed debut in this awesome movie.  He is the best racer out there, well he has this rival named Johnny Tran.  Both of them are very good, but nobody really knows which one is better.  Well they were out to find out who is the best as both of them are think they are the greatest at what they do.  Also, Paul Walker plays the part of the new guy in town who thinks he is just as good as Vin Diesel and Johnny Tran.  And he is sure that he is going to prove it in just a matter of time.  But what's this guy's secret?  Your going to have to watch the movie to find out!  He was great accompiant for the flick.  These guys live for speed, racing in these amazing cars.  Also, the races take place in the greatest city in the world- Los Angelas.  Basically if you are a fan of racing-action-high speed movies this one may wind up being your favorite.  It is definately my favorite of this genre.  There are many high paced, dangerous stunts performed in this movie.  Can you handle something going at this speed?  Go out, pick up this movie, and find out today!  Additionally, one more thing, JA RULE is in this movie for ya'll who don't know!  That is another plus for a reason to pick this up.  I'm outta hear, aiight? Take care.  HOLLA!
2002-03-16	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	F and F was a good movie and had a good plot but left you hanging in the end that made you wonder "What the [heck]??" The movie was fast paced and entertaining. I still thing that Gone in 60 Seconds was better only because the story plot was solid and didn't leave you hanging in the end. So the only thing i have to say is watch the movie but don#t get mad when it comes to the end since it leaves so many answers open, Other than that it was a great movie!!! If you liked Gone in 60 seconds i think you will also like this one, especially since it has good special effects that leaves you in your seat saying "wow that was cool" F and F is an enjoyable movie and as i said did not lack in story but mostly the ending!
2014-03-15	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	we received the product in good shape. just like it was promised that the product didn't give us any problem while we were watching the movie.
2002-01-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This DVD is jam packed with adrenaline and speed that not even Nos can compete.  There is great incite on how the film was made and how the subculture that it tried to emulate was used to bring this film to life.  The multi-angles that were shown from diffrent perspectives to certain stunts I think were the best I've ever seen in a film.  The actors and director's comments about making the film are PRICELESS(especially Vin Diesel's).  A great gift for any Vin Diesel Fan!!!  A DEFINITE MUST BUY!!!!!
2001-07-25	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Paul Walker and Vin Diesel were incredible in &quot;The Fast and the Furious.&quot;  The movie had a great showing of affection, which is great to see.  It was refreshing to see Dom(Vin Diesel)care for his friends the way he did. Vin Diesel looked soooooo good.  All those cars were tight, especially the 95' eclipse. VIN IS GREAT!
2014-01-22	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is everything a car movie should be.  The races,and the racers life. The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly; in a more recent version.
2010-07-25	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The sport-tuner craze started with this movie. Although Smokey and the Bandit can claim the cop car-killing original movie, Fast&Furious adds sport tuning to the genre. Lancers, Civics, Supras, and S2000's are for starters(no pun intended to the engine component!)! Jettas, classic muscle cars, Ram trucks, and others tricked out too destroy the competition in races is what this movie is about. Vin Diesel came to prominence in Hollywood after this movie leading him to XXX, Riddick,etc. This is a sport tuning (cult?Dare I say it?!) movie that is already a classic in my mind.
2001-07-16	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	You HAVE to see this movie.It is action packed,adventurous,thrilling and one of the best car/racing movies i have ever seeeeeeeeeeeen.proud to anounceMark Neal
2002-01-23	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Ok.  First I want to say this to all you people who complained about the lack of plot, realism and dialogue saying that the movie is aimed at young male "idiots." :  You are morons. If you didn't know that that was what the movie would be like going into it by the previews, then you don't even deserve the right to a complaint.  Perhaps you don't understand the the purpose of the movie: to see underrepresented import cars drive fast.  That's it.  That's what I payed for so that's what I got.  Sure, there is to much emphasis on "NOS," but really, the movie achieved its goal as a fast-paced thriller involving cars not quite out of reach of the average American working class car enthusiast.  I know that I, along with many other young teens, loved to see the faster versions of the cars in our driveways rocketing down a city street at 150+ mph.
2002-01-06	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie has very flashy cars and Many sexy scenes, but beyond that there is no substance to the film. The story isn't very good (I was very board with the film) and the acting is terrible. In short this is not an oscar film.Yet in a way the film is a perfect mirror reflection of the rotting of our culture. Remember the words of both tolkien and Zeppelin &quot;All that is gold does not glitter&quot;.
2009-07-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	When The Fast And The Furious came out street racing had pretty much been underground. Years before this movie people had been modifiying their cars in the "import" style and racing them on the streets. This before the civic was as common to modify as a ford mustang. Seeing a car "tricked" out on the street was still something out of the ordinary and new. At the time there weren't any real car movies going about other than gone in 60 sec's (freaking awsome btw!) and that was about it. When The Fast And The Furious came out it was the first time the public got a chance to look into modern day street racing. At the time I had a Honda civic that I tricked out and use to race around in. I remember when this movie came out it meant that basicly our underground lifestyle/hobby was about to get recognized big time.The Movie The Fast And The Furious is pretty much like point break only featured around the world of street racing instead of surfing. In this movie you hear car lingo instead of surfing lingo. The characters get their thrill in by racing vs. hitting big waves. The story having obviously not too original is so...so but like all action movies you watch this for the action. If your a car fan you probably can enjoy any good vehicle action seen. TF&TF; only has a few racing scenes, but the story revolves around the hobby of modifying and racing cars. That's the reason that most car people can watch and appreciate the film.This is a loveable movie...in the same way those old cheesy zombie movies are loveable. yeah it's corny, cheasy, inaccurate, but that's what makes it a great zombie movie. The Fast and The Furious had a cheesy plot,corny acting, inaccurate car info, but it was so great to see a movie based on racing.This really isn't the movie to watch if your the type that nit picks at every minute detail that isn't on par with reality. If you look at cinema that way than no movie will ever please you unless it's a documentary. This is just a good ol' car movie.
2007-08-24	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This film seems to be very high in a glossy, shiny image but it really lacks in acting and believability.  Paul Walker almost seems like he is a robot when reciting his lines in many scenes, and his ability to strain a look of concern makes my head hurt all the more.  Vin Diesel is really no better, and even though he played a great villain in the movie "Pitch Black", his try at being a rebel without a cause/but with a cool car is stagnant.  What the film is really good at are chase and race scenes, but the story involving an undercover agent and gangs who seem invincible is shallow, hollow and downright ludicrous.  This film probably appeals to middle school kids who dream of having a souped up Honda with a fancy paintjob.
2002-01-19	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This action-loaded rocker puts the pedal to the metal and rules the screen with incredible stunts, adventure, and very fast cars.Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) is the king of the Los Angeles street racing jungle. After a new guy by the name of Brian Spielman (Paul Walker) comes in wanting to race and take all for the win, Toretto agrees. Realizing that this toad has actually got the right foot to put on the high powered gas, Dominic lets him join his band of racing brothers and tries to get him racing some more. But what he fails to realize is that Spielman is actually an undercover cop sent in to nail them for robbing trucks carrying stolen electronics merchandise. With fully loaded tanks of NOS, the race begins.What is so interesting about this adventure is that over the course of time, you forget that Paul Walker is actually a cop. You feel as though he's on Toretto's side. But reality breaks in when Brian must complete his mission in a last chance effort.First off, the action is a rocket. The feel of traveling at 150 MPH actually sets in when watching the races. The dramatic aspect of the culture is really a bold tone that sends a shivering adrenaline rush through your spine. This film is mature enough to handle itself, while it seems as if one slip could send this film overboard. The stunts are incredible, and the plot (while simple and average seeming) is genious. The action delivers. I was impressed throughout it all. A sequel isn't demanded, but seemingly and most likely inevitable.QUOTE: "Everything works. Everything sizzles. Everything makes it a great action picture. This film really gives a new meaning to the new-age "cool". The action is on overload, so be prepared for a thunderstorm of a distinct blend of pulse pounding adventure and brilliantly constructed plot that packs the fun. THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS is a fire blazing tatomic action prodigy!"
2003-05-16	5.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I found the fast and the furious to be one of the best movies i have ever seen.  I can't even count how many times i have come home from school and sat and ate popcorn and watched this movie.  I can't wait for the next one to make my body pump twice as much adrenaline!
2002-04-15	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Okay, let's set the record straight, and give some insight on some ways that I believe this movie could have been better. For starters, was the director or whoever was in charge of dialogue in the right state of mind when they made the line &quot;you're gonna need more than that crotch rocket&quot;. Let me just say that the Honda CBR 900RR that Johnny Tran was riding would have smothered the tar out of Dominic's ride. And though Dominic wasn't speaking to Lance, the Yamaha YZF R1 he was riding would have incinerated Dominic. I am an avid bike rider, so I KNOW these things to be true. One complaint I had was, why didn't they have the mother of all super sport bikes on the film? The Suzuki GSX-R 1000 is without a doubt the hottest bike on the market. How else can you refer to a machine that weighs a feathery 374 lbs. (dry), and can go a quarter mile in 9.74 seconds at approx. 144 mph. Given, that cars weigh a lot more than bikes and can still run at fast speeds, but my argument is that the dialogue personnel was way outta line.
2001-06-27	5.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is one of the best movies I've ever seen . The reasons:1. They had some Phat cars and they had some doped out engines.2. There were hot girls in da movie ( the hottest was Michelle Rodriguez) So you can just watch it for the girls.3. The races were always tight when they had the cars fly down the street.4. They had J to the A Ja Rule .  It was just a tight movie and if I could I would rate Michelle Rodriguez And she would get about a Thousand stars .So go watch The Fast And The Furious you wont be disappointed.(Michelle if you read this your the hottest girl I know):) Come visit me
2004-05-09	1.0	7	13	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	First let me say, I never saw this in the theaters, rather rented the DVD and I did so for really only one reason.  You see, I own a black Dodge Charger (mines a '69 whereas the movies a '70) with a 440 and for the past year or so I have been challenged so many times I had to know what was causing this.So, one day after completely blowing away some idiot in a canary yellow Toyota with bright blue flames on the side and a spoiler I decided to allow him to catch up (that was more of challenge as my car idles at around 20 mph) and asked him what convinced him and the army of others in similar import cars to think he could even come close to beating me. He said he saw it in this movie so on a whim I decided to give it a shot and I found out something very interesting.This movie is bad; in fact I would gamble to say it's one of the worst things I have ever seen in my life (on par with 'Speed 2').  The acting was sub-par, the stunts were over-blown, the script was absolute nonsense (and no, I for one cannot just over look that as so many claim I should).You know, I'm 24 and can... kind of... see why some would like this, but I can't disengage my mind long enough.MattPS - There is no way that '70 Charger in the flick would have a problem beating any car on the road (import or not), let alone what it was racing.
2002-03-10	3.0	5	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious is a good example of a trend that is fashionable in Hollywood these days -- taking a grade 'B' concept, idea or script and dressing it up as a grade 'A' movie. ...The movie revolves around the latest craze in street racing. Young people are taking the lowliest cars, such as Honda Civics, and converting them into lean, mean street machines. These vehicles are incredibly fast, their power often enhanced by nitrous oxide injectors. They look to be both dangerous and expensive, but that's a lot of their appeal. Frankly, I'd like to drive one myself.The movie opens with a bang, a visual adrenaline / testosterone combo rush in which several guys and a girl in supercharged little black cars attack and rob a semi truck as it roars down an interstate highway. The scene reminds me of the old Westerns where robbers attacked a moving stagecoach. It's a silly scene because it's so obviously impossible, but it's also totally exhilarating to watch. In real life, if you absolutely must rob a semi, try one that's parked.The plot involves a not-so-bright ...[man] named Brian [Paul Walker] who infiltrates a group of street racers led by the charismatic Dominic [Vin Diesel]. The group may or may not be the thieves. Along the way, Brian must prove his worth as a racer, and these scenes involve some rather amazing races along the streets of LA. He also manages to fall in love with Dominic's sister, Mia [Jordana Brewster]. Incidentally, the plot seems ...Vin Diesel dominates the cast. He was also appealing in two movies in 2000, Pitch Black and Boiler Room. He is probably our next great action star. Paul Walker, who sounds like Keanu Reeves and looks like the young Rob Lowe, makes a good white bread kind of hero. Brewster and Michelle Rodriguez are great to look at, but this is a guy flick, so it's hard to gauge their acting skills here.The Fast and the Furious is one of the most visually interesting movies of 2001. Director Rob Cohen keeps everything, well, fast and furious. The movie is in constant movement. The photography is outstanding. The colors and lighting create an LA that is appropriately dreamlike, since we know that all the things we are seeing could only really happen in a movie. This is street racing and crime as a fantasy.This movie may be all style and no substance. It's a guilty pleasure, trash mixd with class....
2001-06-30	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Awesome movie. Acting was well beyond what i expected, the storty line was not too bad either. But if you are an import street racing fan such as myself, then you'll totally love the heck out of this flick! I drive a souped up 1st gen Mazda RX7 thats about 80% where I want it speed wise and HP wise. So the RX7's in the movie really caught my eye. The women were tough yet still female, the men were men, and the cars...ohhhh the cars! Watch it girls, if yo man wants you to go, go with him. It's well worth the trip. Well, I give it two thumbs and two toes up...other than that, can't say too much more. Peace out!
2001-11-07	3.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Do not watch this movie if you're looking for substance; it has none. This movie is like a throw-back to those classic Drive-in movies...all action, and all style.That being said, I found the movie enjoyable...however I found the glorified import racing scene to be more of an advertisement than a &quot;plot point.&quot; Also, this movie seemed to convince every (economy) import-owner out there that their car was fast...or they could pull off what was done in the movie.It was a 13 second Eclipse, a 12 second Supra, and a Charger with a wheelie bar in reality. Try to remember that.Its recommendable...if you can discern fact from fiction.
2001-07-03	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	the cars were great and very fast.the acting i thought could had been a little better.and they could have built/given a little more background for some of the characters but i f go to see it for the cars u will get your moneys worth.
2009-05-17	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Ordered this great movie and it arrived in a VERY timely manner and in perfect condition! Would order from this vendor again!
2013-02-13	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I love all these movies & watch them at least once a month.. Never a disappointment.. Thank you very much
2001-12-11	3.0	0	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If I really liked fast japanese cars, this movie would be a whole lost better.  As it is, the movie did an okay job, but nothing to brag about.  Go rent &quot;Point Break&quot; for more or less the same effect and with a little more soul.
2001-06-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If this movie is like Pointbreak, I think I need to see that one again , cause I don't remember it being an edge-of-your-seat movie like The Fast & the Furious. I don't agree with those statements at all about it being "Pointbreak II". Vin Diesel has a BRIGHT future ahead of him (I knew this after watching him in Pitch Black). This movie was totally awesome. It was jam-packed with action (which alot of movies lack..they usually just have "spurts" of action) and there wasn't just one or two race scenes...just packed with speed..and one bad  Dodge Charger.  I am a woman and I went with my best buddy (another woman) and I was drooling over Vin Diesel, and she was drooling over Paul Walker. THIS IS A MUST SEE MOVIE. For the guys AND the gals!! Woo-hoo! 5 STARS!
2013-12-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	We love the Fast and Furious movies. We could watch them over and over. Lots of action and humor. Just pure fun.
2014-02-26	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I am not a fan of the F & F franchise but I saw this with my fianc&eacute; because he wanted to watch it and I actually liked it.
2001-12-21	5.0	1	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I think that this movie is prof that the (japanese) sport "karts" are no way near the power of the legendary american muscle cars. The (japanese) sport "karts" in this film were in there maximum power (nitros oxide + twin turbo cars)could not match the the pure power of the CHARGER (not in its full potencial), an all steel car, or any of the AMERICAN MUSCLE CARS of the past or even today MUSCLE CARS. I think this movie is prof for those who think that today import cars are the fastest. My SS CAMARO easly can go 160+ MPH with no problems and without any modifications at all, not like the "(japanese) fully modified Sport Karts" that are breaking bolts to go only 150 MPH!!!! What a shame:(  (...)
2003-10-15	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	great action movie with some nice car racing and stunts. Diesel fuels up the screen with his part and Walker lays the law down with his undercover cop role. both do extremely well. Ja Rule makes his acting debut and he is great. the sequel I recommend for fans but im a fan and the second one was lame
2008-03-07	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Like all of the movies in this series, this is light on plot and heavy on driving.  I liked it because the car scenes are not CGI.  Relax and enjoy it.
2002-01-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Wow....this is on my top 3 list of movies ever...and that is can compete with saving private ryan and black hawk down is just plain awsome...why don't more people make movies like this!
2004-02-18	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Although the movie is not one of the newest it is still my favorite one, because it is full of action and there are a lot of really cool and fast cars. Perhaps some scenes are a little bit exaggerated, but that is, why I like this actionful movie. Furthermore it is very interesting to get some information about, in which way it is possible to tune a car.So, I really recommend this movie, especially for people, who like a lot of action and fast cars, too.Enjoy watching the film...
2002-02-05	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Apparently, I've developed a penchant for stink-bomb movies.  This latest one, The Fast and the Furious, may have set the weekly low.  Like, almost (but not quite) as bad as Mission to Mars.  Anyway, between dialogue that makes no sense and vague gearhead references that probably aren't even accurate, my favorite scene is where they're going after a team of inner city hijackers for stealing $1,200,000 in...  DVD players.  Now, the average retail of a DVD player is about $150.  That means that the team of hijackers has apparently stolen and fenced about 8,000 DVD players.  Hmmm...  Sounds like a lot of work.  Perhaps they should switch to selling drugs.  Anyway, stay away from this one...  although the ultra-testosterone laden storyline is good for a laugh.
2002-01-06	1.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	...I agree "The Fast and the Furious" has some good action, but a Toyota running a close race with a 1000hp, supercharged, 440 cubic inch, V8 car is completely and totally ridiculous.  It just defies the laws of physics!If you are one of those people who think you can modify your rice burner to run with real muscle cars, this movie is definately for you.  If so, watch this movie and keep on dreaming.
2009-08-03	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The movie itself was good, better than the two sequels in my opinion. But the real reason I bought the film was because it was on blu ray, and it did not dissapoint. The cars looked amazing, as did the special effects. The special features were ok but nothing really great, the "mash up" feature was kind of neat to play with. For those who don't know mash up is mixing clips and sound from the movie in a order you like. You are basically making your own commercial. All in all this was a good buy, I just ordered Fast and Furious, hopefully it's just as good.
2002-01-08	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I've seen this film (or at least the same story) about four or five times, but the characters were riding horses, not super-tuned cars.The plot -- such as it is -- is a thin excuse to hang the cars, girls and stunts on, but it's a good, solid, time-proven plot that works real good.  ((My step-daughter, who has borne my dissertations on why the remake of &quot;Gone in 60 Seconds&quot; was inferior to the original due to the producers insisting on adding a plot, pointed out that this film has a plot and it's pretty good.  I allowed as how that was because it was a plot that made sense.))While the thrust of the film (and of the article that inspired it) involves super-tuned asian sedans, the big set-piece stunt sequence and finale of the film involves a truly awesome nine-second blown Dodge, proving once again that there's no real substitute for plain old cubic inches to really move the mail.Most of the cast are adequate to their jobs; Vin Diesel is the outstanding exception, recalling a young Lee Marvin in hi portrayal of a tough man who knows he's tough and doesn't need to prove it.The truck highjacking sequences belong in anohter movie -- no way this sort of Road Warrior-style stuff would be able to go on without the cops showing up.  The interactions between the local cops and the FBI are typical movie stuff; amusing but improbable.And that final stunt -- though not the equal of the final stunt in the original &quot;Gone in 60 Seconds&quot; -- is both spectacular and appropriate to the overall form and content of the film.Fun, some really nice driving/stunt sequences, nothing really durable to take away with you but you won't find yourself considering demanding a refund of your wasted time, as i did after the &quot;Gone in 60 Seconds&quot; remake.
2001-09-11	5.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The movie The Fast and the Furious is one of the best car racing movies I had ever seen in my whole life.  Im mean, I'm 18 years old but I have seen a few racing movies for example: Days of Thunder..but The Fast and the Furious is the best one out yet.  I can't wait to get the DVD.  Before the movie came out I just started to get into cars and hookin' them up to the fullest, but after the movie, it inspired me even more and I know the millions of others viewrs got inspired too.  My opinion..more than five stars..and thank you to the people who put the movie together.
2001-09-14	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is just cool.Really cool. I mean so cool. It's the best &quot;cheap thrill&quot; I've seen in a number of years. The plot is irrelevant because there is none; characters are highlighted with only a couple of characteristics, and the movie lacks any substance whatsoever. So what? Really, who went to see this picture thinking that he would be learning about the danger of drunk-driving or the risk driving a race car? I went to see it while tired, and I got out hyper-ventilating. It's fun, light and so cool. It plays like a music video, a really good one. And it's essential that we remember that, because that was the movie's whole basis. And the effects and the races work so well.Go see this film when you don't want to work your brain too hard...Enjoy
2007-05-30	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I'm reading these reviews and I ask myself if these people were expecting a Casablanca, or a Gone with the Wind, or Saving Private Ryan, or Forrest Gump, or some other deep, Oscar-worthy masterpiece. ITS A RACING MOVIE WITH HOT GUYS AND GALS! Its a popcorn, summer flick, to watch lightheartdly and just enjoy the action. This is ALL its meant for!!!If you like the action, the intense racing scenes, then pick this one up. The HD presentation is simply beautiful and the sound is outrageously crsip. Pump this baby through a 7.1 and turn in up! Sit in the middle of throttle opening, gas blasting, nitrous spraying goodness! If you want a good action flick and you dig fast cars and fast women (there's content in there for the ladies too) then pick this one up. You won't regret it.
2003-01-19	4.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	"The Fast and the Furious" is, if nothing else, the ultimate guy flick: full of fast cars, hot chicks, and macho dudes who beat each other up before bonding over barbecue and Coronas.It is a testosterone-fueled, pumped, hyperkinetic dude fantasy that draws on old `60s and 70s chase films like "Bullitt" and "Grand Theft Auto," but adds a rewarding layer of character and relationship depth.Mind you, when we're talking about character depth, we're not talking about "Glengarry Glen Ross" here, but unlike recent car-chase flicks like "Gone in Sixty Seconds," we at least understand what drives the relationships. Heck, we see that there are relationships.The central relationship revolves around Toretto (Vin Diesel) and Brian O'Connor (Paul Walker). The former is a street racer who has a side business hijacking trucks; the latter is an undercover cop who infiltrates Toretto's gang. Of course, there's a male bonding experience here - Toretto beats O'Connor in a race (run through curiously traffic-free Los Angeles streets), and afterwards O'Connor saves Toretto from being picked up by the police.Soon thereafter, O'Connor is more or less accepted into Toretto's gang, and while the central purpose of of this is to bust the gang, O'Connor finds himself becoming friends with his intended collars, and drawn into the alluring world of street racing. He also falls in love with Toretto's sister Mia (Jordana Brewster), even though that would seem to violate every rule known to undercover police work.Of course, "The Fast and the Furious" isn't a realistic crime caper; if it were, would Toretto's gang really rip off trucks while they're moving? Their method is to surround the truck with a small flotilla of hopped-up compact cars, shoot a rope from one of the cars into the cab of the truck, and use the rope as a bridge to jump onto the truck. From there, I suppose it'd be a matter of gaining entry into the cab, subduing the driver, and stealing the truck. Now, all this is pretty exciting stuff on screen, but hasn't it occurred to Toretto that it'd just be easier to rip off the truck when it's parked?But realism isn't the point here - adrenaline is, and "The Fast and the Furious" delivers just that, with a healthy dollop of style and testosterone. Enjoy the movie, but just don't think about it too much.
2001-07-01	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I saw this movie the day it came out knowing that it got no stars in the newspaper. But let me tell you this is a great display of work. The action keeps you going and going, and begging for more. If you are a person who loves cars, or even if you don't you would enjoy this movie.
2002-01-05	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you like real cars going real fast, you have gotta see this.  It is filled with fast action scenes, beautiful women, and is accompanied by a surprisingly good plot.  I'm a car fanatic, but even if I wasn't , I would give it a 11 out of 10 just because of the special effects and action sequences.
2002-04-12	5.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	"The Fast and the Furious" (2001)After the disappointing Driven, in 2001 we really needed a movie with awesome cars and awesome girls to perk up our screens with the driving theme. The Fast and the Furious was not a movie I was looking forward to watching, but it surprised me with its ability to entertain me like no other car movie before it. This is a stylish, amazingly shot, witty, man's movie that set new heights for future great racing flicks.Okay, so the movie doesn't exactly have the most amazing story. The characters aren't really 3-dimensional and most of the plot is taken from Point Break (which I have yet to see). What really made me love The Fast and the Furious is the fact that I was never bored, sighing or rolling my eyes. I was never shifting my [behind] around on the seat, never twindling my fingers on the seat in front of me, nothing like that at all. I was involved in this movie, because, however undeveloped the characters are, this is a movie proud of what it is - a movie strictly for entertainment value. It was loud, had the most awesome cars you will ever see in 2001 and had lots of cool actors that suit their characters. The Fast and the Furious made me get in the car, take a little ride and I definitely had to make sure I'd hold on.This movie is all neat and stylie, with kinetic energy and the best races I've ever seen on-screen. I was also surprised at how well the movie was made, the editing was very tight, the cinematography stunning and surprising (nominated for an AFI this year), the colours flashy and the presentation exuberant. And to boot, the undercover cop idea was done to the best it could, considering how the director had to focus on the cars more than a brilliant story, because this movie is mostly aimed at teenagers and youngsters who love the noise and the cars. That doesn't mean to say that anybody can't enjoy The Fast and the Furious, because it is pretty hard not to like this film!The actors, as I said before, are rough and tough and suit their characters well. Paul Walker (also seen in Joy Ride this year) was charming enough and a believable cop. Michelle Rodriguez was particularly sexy for the girls side and is taking a tough-chick perspective - she also made her debut in Girlfight. Lets see what else you can do, Michelle, because girl, you got talent. Jordana Brewster is beautiful and looks great with every movement she makes - she's not a Judi Dench, but that's definitely not what the movie is asking of her! None of the lead characters, male or female, can top Vin Diesel's classic as Dom, the deep-voiced, strong, action-man of a hero - or not? Another good thing about the movie - the characters constantly change positions, and it made them 2-D. Good enough for me, especially in a racing film!Some corny lines sometimes overrun the furious style of the movie, but it is still a fantastic, unpredictable, masterfully constructed piece of film. I enjoyed every minute, this is a never-dull, loud, action-packed flick that's on fire with audience praise and has the most exhilarating chase sequences of the year. One of my 2001 favourites!MY GRADE: A-
2003-03-21	1.0	5	9	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I was really trying to avoid seeing this movie. People were telling me to watch it, but after seeing the commercials I knew what kind of movie it would be...and I was right. It was aweful. No point to it. Im not a racing fan to begin with, but i saw this hbo when there was nothing on. Okay you will like this movie if you are one of those people who are like "MY CAR HAS A 200ZR2000 V18 WITH SUPERULTRA BOOSTERS THAT WILL BEAT YOUR CAR ANY DAY". bluntly, if your a racing freak or just one of those trailorpark persons who try to be cool by talking about cars, you will probably find this entertaining. But for the rest of us, you will notice there is no point to the movie. The producers probably said "LETS TAKE A BALD GUY WITH A ROBOTIC VOICE, PUT HIM TANKTOPS AND GIVE HIM COOL CARS. DOING THIS WILL MAKE GIRLS, SCRUBS AND ROBOTS WANT TO SEE THIS MOVIE!" Vin whats-his-name can not even act. Then he gives a bunch of cheesy one-liners like "i live my life a quarter mile at a time" YEAH...nice philosophy, wonder how long it took someone to make that up. People who said this was good movie probably was not paying attention to the actually movie, but to the race scenes, which were not that bad. Eiether that or the 5 stars were for Paul Walkers hair. Hes got good hair.
2001-07-26	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	this movie was just flat out awome. Street racing at it's finest. Cars that would make you give your soul in a second. It's a guy movie, little else to say, if you're a guy you will love this movie. Vin diesel was great in it, he has the same tough guy attitude as in pitch black. The main actor though, the one who plays brian, bleh, that guy reminds me of &quot; speed &quot; or &quot; point break &quot; if you know what I mean. But don't worry, he doesn't ruin the movie. Whatever acting he lacks vin makes up for. GO SEE THIS MOVIE
2001-12-05	1.0	5	18	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I feel that nearly everyone that's rating this movie are giving it extremely high marks. Give me a break people, let's all take a step back from the &quot;cool&quot; cars and hot women (there wasn't very many) and see this movie for what it really is. . . A cheap, temporary form of entertainment. Face it, in a few, few years anyone who buys this movie is going to end up giving it away or forgetting about (I know I did with ID4). Also, I have to agree with the other viewer that rated this movie with one star--a complete Point Break rip-off. If you really want to see this movie, either rent it or borrow it from a friend, but for- the-love-of-all-things-sacred don't actually buy it.
2002-02-11	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The critics slam this movie... and it is an easy target, action-oriented movies usually are. It's always easier to tear something down rather than build it up, but I'm going to give my best shot at defending my four star rating.I will grant the critics that the acting is only "fair." I will also grant that the plot is unbelievable some of the time.Sure, the actors in this film are young and occasionally show their inexperience. However, I would say that Vin Diesel's performance stands out. Sure it is a "race movie," and nobody will give him credit, but he took a one-dimensional character and gave Dom Turetto a bit of swagger, strength, but also a sense of fatherly protectionism and remorse for his past crime. Dom Turetto is the father-figure for the team of racers which is the focus of the plot. He is also the anti-hero to Paul Walker's protagonist, Brian Spilner/O'Connor.As for the plot, I will concede that it is far-fetched, with its semi-truck hijackings, wiseguy police officers, and machinegun-toting Asian Youth Gangs. However, I would argue that the plot does its best to string the racing events together in a cohesive way while not turning into a "night and day" kind of movie in which you have a very distinct rift between the "race scenes" and the "dialogue scenes." I compared this movie to another race movie called "Driven" (which was horrible). "The Fast and the Furious" did an outstanding job when compared to "Driven" in keeping the momentum throughout its dialogue sequences. The transitions are seamless, and the dialogue and direction are quick and to the point.Where this movie excels is in the handling of the race sequences. The choreography of the auto races or the semi-truck hijackings are unlike anything we have seen. To show these types of images with real street-legal cars is something that captures the imagination of many young Americans. Each "race sequence" is unique from the others, either because of the cars, the setting, time of day, or the adversity facing the protagonists (shotgun-weilding semi-truck driver, freight train on a collision-course, or the aforementioned machinegun-toting Asian Youth Gang).I believe this movie has been so popular because of the themes that emerge from the periphery of the storyline. The story and action convey a sense of family, competition, hard work, and equality between the sexes. The racing teams represented in the movie allow their members to cross barriers of race and sex, exposing close-knit groups which help each other excel in the competitive world of drag racing. Through hard work and the support of one's teammates, any youth in America could build his or her own dream machine and race against the best in the city.The DVD has excellent visual and audio qualities, and the DVD "extras" are outstanding. The "making of..." and director commentary sections are strong and insightful. In the deleted scenes section, the viewer will find a great scene in which Dom, Brian, and the other men of the "team" are outside the garage drinking beer and telling the stories of how they became racers and how one's life changes after becoming addicted to the adrenaline-powered life of a racer. Why this scene was cut from the movie is inexplicable."The Fast and the Furious" will entertain you many times over if you keep an open mind and look past some of the less believable elements. It may not impress you with an Oscar-worthy performance or storyline, but for those who accept its limitations and enjoy its successes, it is an entertaining movie you will watch again and again.
2001-11-20	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	It's rare to find a movie that you want to see more than once.. and I saw it 3 times in the theatre.  Needless to say that this movie isn't one that you get bored with easily or hope it ends soon.  All of the characters are very well developed, there's a good plot, the acting is good, and the cars are awesome.  Everyone should give this movie at least one viewing :)
2013-05-08	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Fast and the Furious is one of the best examples of vicarious entertainment in the movie industry. Anyone who likes action, nice cars, racing, women etc. will find enjoyment from this movie and this franchise in one way or another. This film is a basic popcorn flic. There is not deep plot or deep characters here. So people looking for those elements in this film will be disappointed. However, most people probably knew not to expect such elements from a movie like this anyway, from the title to the trailers. I knew what I was getting when I watched this. So I enjoyed this film mostly.The characters are not great, though the characters are not what people are looking for in this movie anyway. The film stars Brian O'Conner, played by Paul Walker, who is an FBI agent. He is investigating hijackings caused by a street gang being led by Dominic Toretto, played by Vin Diesel. Paul Walker does fine overall in the film. His character I rooted for. However, I do not by for one second that this guy is an FBI agent. Nothing about his character makes be believe he would qualify for the FBI. When he tries to sound professional, it's not believable.Vin Diesel goes good in the film as well. I am a fan of Vin Diesel as an actor. He is one of my favorite aspects of the film. Michelle Rodriguez is also in the film, but does not have that much to do. The side cast are fine. I did not really care for them, but I never found them annoying.The action and racing is the highlight of the film and it's done well. The races are fun, and the action ( mainly car chases) will have you at the edge of your seat.Overall, I enjoyed the film. It's not a deep movie, but it's not supposed to be. It's a popcorn flick meant to appeal to guys, and especially teenage guys. That's why I call it vicarious entertainment. Every guy secretly dreams about being an action hero, driving a nice car, getting all the women. So many guys secretly would envision themselves as Paul Walker or Vin Diesel's character, or one of the other character in the film. That's why I say this is vicarious entertainment.
2001-08-21	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	&quot;Thumbs Up!&quot;This thunderbolt adventure, featuring Paul Walker and Vin Diesel is a spontanious thrill ride, with very few cliches.  The plot is fun and the action and cars are nice.  The Fast and the Furious is just the adventure you've been looking for this summer!  Better than Driven, and faster than Gone in 60 Seconds, The Fast and the Furious speeds up to an explosive power-packed highway of fun!  Check it out.
2001-12-31	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The only thing about the movie is that it does have a predictable plot to the movie, you can figure out what's going on with-in the first 10 mins of the movie, but the action, and racing sequences well make-up for the plot. Being from the import street racing scene the images of squeeling wheels, souped up imports, and NOS in the back are all familiar scenery to me, but the computers and laptops are a bit over the top, only the best of the best use laptops and computers in conjunction with the actual racing. The blowing of the pistons into the cockpit of the car in the first racing sequence is all to familiar and I found it very realistic and believable. The camera following the moves of switching of gears, then following right into the bowels of the transmission then following out to the back of the car, pumps you up and gets you ready for more! The best action I've seen in a movie in a while, and a great break from the &quot;cartoon movies&quot; that are plagueing us now.Spike
2013-12-13	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The story line was good, driving wonderful, and very little profanity or sexual scenes.  A good movie !  There should be more movies with these traits.
2003-01-11	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Nothing says the Big Show like Vin Diesel blasting down the highway over a 100 mph. I enjoyed watching Vin (Dom, character he plays) race in the coolest cars you ever want to see. Dom was a fighter until the end. He got busted up but it was worth the fast pounding action and roar of the engines. I only took off one star because Paul Walker kept getting in the way.Watch this movie for a speedracing rush and a quick shot of Vin on high Diesel.
2003-07-23	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	At first when the movie came out I thought it was stupid to have a movie about Car Racing, so I didnt bother till the second movie came out, when I was forced to go with my Paul Walker loving sister, so to prepare I rented the movie and I loved it, It was so good, Im glad  I gave it a chance because I would have really missed out.
2005-06-27	5.0	3	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is a classic movie starring paul walker and vin deisel. I use to think walker was hot but he is so boyish and too pretty boy for me, like the nsync metro-sexual (heterosexual guys who dress pretty and look gay but are not) I'm more into manly men like vin deisel. He is the sexiest guy i've ever seen. And so is michelle rodrigez. In fact if i were given one opportunity to have one threesome with anyone my first choice would be vin deisel and michelle rodrigez, who dated a while ago. But back to this movie, sorta bad influence on teenage boys who think it's cool to race cars but if it's not taken seriously then it's ok, because it's only for entertainment. Good music, good drama, some humor, and overall good action movie with good actors. But Vin Desiel is the best and when i found out he wasn't in the sequel i didnt wanna even see it at first but i did, in theatre's and it was ok, but a little bit over the top. Some overacting, and to me the asian model that was in the sequel wasn't even that cute. The one that raced at the beginning and as she raced she did a jump over a bridge i think it was and said SPANK MY ASS. I don't know kinda cheesy, lol.
2001-09-27	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	As an unlucky english bloke i had to wait an extra couple of months to see this belter of a movie.  I first saw the adverts for it while on holiday in the Dominican rep. And this was a must see movie.  As i predicted what a movie, action packed, great car races and best of all great modded cars.  10 second quarters awesome!!!
2013-07-18	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Great Action Movie and DVD!!! Great sequel to the original and continues this Action Packed Classic! Great Cast, Stunts, and Cinematography!!! A MUST HAVE!!!
2002-01-23	3.0	21	30	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	THE MOVIE:The Story"The Fast and the Furious" follows the story of an undercover cop, Brian `O Connell, infiltrating a street racing gang in hopes of uncovering a smuggling operation.Movie Features:Tons of fast and hot cars, "men's men," some hot women and a pounding urban hip-hop, metal soundtrack.  This is definitely a guy's movie.Downsides:The plot isn't really well developed and to get the full story you'll probably have to watch the film a few times.  For example, you really don't catch what it is that Brian is really trying to investigate.Overall, with some of the themes in this film this movie probably isn't all that appropriate for kids and probably will not be enjoyed by the more "matured" crowd.  The movie upon it's release was somewhat controversial for it's glamorization of the illegal and dangerous "street racing" culture.Plusses:If you're looking for a fun, action filled flick this movie does the trick for you.  It's definitely high-octane and high-adrenaline with tons of fast racing scenes with fast cars and fast bikes, a handful of fighting.  Plus the hard soundtrack will make you want to get up on your feet.  Overall, if you're a guy who's young or young at heart, this is YOUR movie with some cool cars, hot chicks, etc.THE DVD:Like most new DVD releases this movie is just STACKED with tons of extras, some good and some "whatever."1. Commentary with director Rob Cohen:  standard fare...2. Making of "The Fast and the Furious" documentary3. Theatrical Trailer4. Deleted scenes with director commentary:  some were pretty cool but the film isn't any better with them...alright feature...5. Music videos:  Alright...6. Special Effects Montage:  This was a cool video...7. Interactive eight camera angle stunt sequence and Movie Magic interactive special effects:  Basically this just shows the different angles of the final scene in the movie with the train.  It's okay...but kinda "whatever" as you view it...8. Lots of other features including DVD ROM features, you get the idea...Overall, if you're really into the movie the DVD features are a nice mixed bag of cool stuff (commentary, special effects montage, etc) and some not so cool stuff.  If you're really into the movie get the DVD, if you are ambivalent it may be good for a rental or a pass.THE VERDICT:Overall, while this movie probably won't win anyone critical awards or make any "must-see" lists, this movie is good for what it is - a two hour diversion and entertainment.  This movie is probably best viewed by younger guys into cars, chicks and street music.  Anyone else may either take it or leave it...Mildly Recommended
2002-02-27	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and The Furious is all day-glo coloured cars and polished chrome, lots of high speed car chases, the odd fist fight and plenty of macho posturing. That's not too say it's bad because it's actually pretty entertaining. The Fast and The Furious is a very glossy, testosterone charged male fantasy movie about a cop who infiltrates an auto-theft gang but falls in love with the gang leaders sister, causing him to question his conscience and his superiors to question his loyalties. Sound familiar?(Does anybody remember the 1987 DB Sweeney/Charlie Sheen movie No Mans Land? If you don't then let me remind you of the plot: Rookie cop goes undercover to catch a wealthy young car thief but finds he likes the wealthy young car thief he's supposed to be trapping, and likes his sister even better).Okay so The Fast and The Furious is not exactly Schindler's List or The Godfather when it comes to intellectual stimulation but it doesn't pretend to be and it's a very enjoyable movie, if all you are looking for is entertainment (and what's wrong with that?). Its very much testosterone charged but it still has much to recommend it: Good performances by its two male leads; the very muscular Vin Diesel as the gang leader Dom and the very handsome Paul Walker as the undercover cop. Jordana Brewster as the gang leaders sister also makes a very attractive female lead, although in many ways the cars and the stunts are the stars. Talking of stars, Vin Diesel's star is definitely on the rise and Paul Walker is certain to attract a legion of female fans to assure future star status.The action in this movie is as the title says, fast and furious. It boasts plenty of excellent car chases and enough stunts throughout to keep you interested, if not on the edge of your seat. However, it must be said that some of the quarter of a mile car races, in supposedly super-powered cars, seem to last as long as three trips around Indianapolis's 2.5 mile oval track. It's also fair to point out that some of the dialogue is as we say in the UK a bit &quot;naff&quot;: In other words it will make you cringe occasionally but ALL IN ALL THIS IS PRETTY GOOD FUN. Plus the DVD boasts some reasonable extras.(You can check out No Mans Land on VHS but I don't think its available on DVD)!
2002-03-01	3.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	First, I'll confess to being a middle aged average male &quot;shmoe&quot; so you know where I'm coming from.For the action, this film was mostly what one would expect. For the most part, the cars and the racing were pretty good. The 4 car street race was intense and the photography was excellent on that.  On the other hand, some of the special effects were really poorly done. For example, if a car left the road (except for the last scene), it stopped so quickly and with so little damage that it was flagrantly OBVIOUS that the action was really going on at maybe 30 mph, not the high speeds consistent with the action/plot.  This was so bad, it makes one wonder if they forgot to hire someone to keep an eye on continuity.The other main criticism I had is aside from the first and last race scenes, all the other fast car scenes to me seemed far too similar and got rather boring, frankly.On the other hand, I didn't expect to get ANY decent acting or character development out of this. Vin Diesel was a standout bright spot.  Here you have a supposedly really bad, dangerous, criminal who is clearly spiritual, thoughtful, plays fair, and who only became a criminal because of a sudden life shattering event, and the all-too-human mistake he made in the wake of that event.  Although he is now a career criminal in the wake of the tragedy and his punishment (and the severe limitation the consequences put on his life choices FOR THE REST OF HIS LIFE), it is clear his victims suffer no permenant damage, aside from financial.With the &quot;rogue cop&quot; tendencies of the protagonist, it left me thinking first, how easy it could be for ANY of us to become a &quot;criminal&quot; in a flash of emotion in a time of crisis to a horrible event, and second asking &quot;who is TRULY the protagonist here?&quot;So to me, this movie reminded me of lot of the surprise I received in &quot;Fight Club&quot; expecting generic brand X action, and getting some actual CONTENT to think about as well.......Oh, by the way, if you're under 21, like hot cars and pretty girls - you'll certainly like this. Don't let all this &quot;philosophy&quot; scare you off!  :)
2002-01-29	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	All I can say is, I'm sooo glad this movie doesn't pretend to be anything that it isn't. Who cares about the storyline? Racing and stories don't mix, that's not what this movie is trying to do. It's about linking a load of fast-paced shots of burning rubber, violent machinery, noise and loud music and it does one hell of a job at it!
2010-12-21	4.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Simply a good movie if you are into cars,modding etc.Its a real community and I'm proud to be part of it,grab this movie from Mediasavy,Excellent customer service.
2001-06-27	5.0	0	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you like Point Break this is a great film. Cool car &quot;Charger&quot;, Hot chicks, good story. A must see.
2003-05-29	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	"The Fast and the Furious" is one of the those movies that you didn't expect to be very good when you went to see it, but ended up loving it in the end. It's a film filled with fast-paced action, romance, and incredible cars.The story revolves around an undercover cop, Brian, who is trying to crack a difficult case in which a group of people hijack trucks on the highway and steal their goods. Instead of doing his job, Brian gets caught up in the lifestyle of street racers and must choose between his job and duty and his friendship and loyalty.I would suggest this film to people who are fans of Paul Walker and Vin Diesel as well as people interested in a cool action-packed film that will have you on the edge of you seat and saying, "Wow!"
2013-06-20	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	These movies are usually just okay to me.  The cars are always nice.  The storyline is okay and so is the acting.
2004-11-17	5.0	1	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was so awesome!  It was awesome because Vin kicked massive amounts of rocking!!  Anyway, if you like car chase movies this is the best!!!!!
2001-12-27	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	when i saw this movie i wasnt all excited for the cars.  to be honest i saw it becasue Vin Diesel was in it.lol...but i did not leave dissapointed.  after seeing the movie i do have a greater appreciation for racing.  wether it be illegal or not.  it takes talent and skill.  the movie was highly entertaining and it grabed me from the begginning.  as soon as it comes out i am defintly buying it.
2011-12-27	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is a movie mostly for car enthusiast. If you love cars you will LOVE this movie. I'm a huge car enthusiast and i cant get enough of this movie. Its such an original movie with interesting characters and a very interesting story behind them. Great movie to watch on boring Sundays.
2004-09-17	1.0	7	14	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	THIS FILM MAKES ME SICK IT WAS DUMBER THAN A KID IN MY CLASS NAMED JADE AND HE EATS GLUE.THIS MOVIE WAS SUCH A JOKE IT MADE A 1910 MODEL T FORD LOOK LIKE A 1973 OLDSMOBILE CUTLASS WITH A 454. i PERSONALY WANTED TO TAKE THE DVD AFTER I WAS DONE WATCHING IT AND DRIVE OVER IT A COUPLE THOUSANDS OF TIMES.SO PLEASE !!!!!!!! STAY AWAY FROM THIS FILM
2003-02-24	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Just like XXX would be James Bond for the MTV drones, The Fast & The Furious is Days of Thunder minus the NASCAR label for the MTV drones.  A forgettable plot, sloppy editing, ethnic stereotypes, and characters you just can't care for are abound here (just about all of which director Rob Cohen would bring to XXX), and the sappy, cheesey dialogue won't bowl you over either unless you listen to Ja Rule or Linkin Park music and wear Fubu clothing.  Vin Diesel, who has actually put on half decent performances in Saving Private Ryan, Boiler Room, and Pitch Black, is just here to brood around and show his muscles, nothing more.  Any talent that any of the actors have is beyond wasted, and in the end The Fast & The Furious is stupid and almost unwatchable (and I thought Gone in 60 Seconds was bad...).  All in all, those with a functioning brain should check out good films like Minority Report, Blood Work, Reservoir Dogs, Frailty, or The Royal Tenenbaums if they actually want to watch something worthwhile; just skip this.
2013-11-16	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This defines the phrase, &#34;guilty pleasure&#34;.  I don't know many who want to actually admit they enjoy these potboilers, but it does boil down the the fact that they're great fun.  My better tast6e says these are trashy, but my senses say &#34;relax and enjoy&#34;.
2001-11-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is deafantly a movie anyone would be proud to have in their video collection. The intense speed will pull you into the driver's seat. Fighting, speed, action, and hot guys, this movie has it all.
2013-12-16	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Fantastic movie filled with Fast cars and a great cast. There chemistry is evident and this movie kept me entertained from start to end..
2013-03-31	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	i like the movie good qualty and a good price for wat i good fast service wen i got it
2002-03-28	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	"The Fast and the Furious" is nothing more than a sheer intensified thrill ride that will have you clenching your teeth from start to electrifying finish! With just as much exciting action as director Renny Harlin's "Driven", the direction of Rob Cohen ("Daylight", "The Skulls") was just as exciting as ever! Producer Neal H. Moritz ("I Know What You Did Last Summer") did a splendid job in bringing this hot-rod of a movie to the big screen!"The Fast and the Furious" focuses on the following:Saturday night. Midnight. A deserted street in a lonely industrial wasteland on the outskirts of Los Angeles. Suddenly, a mighty roar. The air is filled with the sound of turbo-charged horsepower, coming from under the hoods of dozens of colorful Japanese and German subcompacts and sports cars which quickly pull into the street and create an illegal drag strip a quarter-mile long. These customized vehicles are driven by men and women, mostly in their twenties, representing all races and nationalities. They walk around and admire each other's handiwork before getting down to the business at hand--finding out who has the fastest car of them all...as "The Fast and the Furious" welcomes you to the worls of import street racing.Unlike the classic American street racers depicted in films like "Rebel Without A Cause" and "American Graffiti", the racers in "The Fast and the Furious" rely on computers, fuel injectors, nitrous oxide boosters, and other high-tech equipment to power their "rice rockets" to speeds of over 150 mph.Vin Diesel ("Pitch Black", "XXX") stars as Dominic Toretto, the leader of a pack of street racers who drives the streets of L.A. as if he owns them. As far as his crew, including his girlfriend, Letty (Michelle Rodriguez, "Resident Evil"), are concerned, he does. The races are their street theater, tribal gathering, and battlefield, fuelled by adrenaline and out-of-control speed. A newcomer named Brian Spilner (Paul Walker, "Joy Ride") is ready to test the limits. He seeks Dominic's approval. After a blazing encounter in L.A.'s Chinatown with ruthless street racer Johnny Tran (Rick Yune, "Snow Falling on Cedars"), Dominic decides that Brian is alright. Dominic's sister Mia (Jordana Brewster, "The Faculty") likes what she sees, too. The thing is, they don't know that he's a cop...and his real name is Brian O'Conner. Brian is undercover, investigating a series of big-rig hijackings. Dominic and Tran are both suspects. As the rivalry between Dominic's and Johnny Tran's crews escalates, Brian's bonds with Dominic and Mia deepen. But he's still a cop and as the pressure to wrap up the hijacking case intensifies, Brian must decide where his loyalites lie and what his limits really are.The DVD format of "The Fast and the Furious" was amazing! With deleted scenes, camera angles of the final car stunt scene, and lots more, this is the DVD that anyone must own...right now! With a great young cast that's hard to beat, fast cars, super-charged action and suspense, and an electrifying soundtrack, you'll agree that "The Fast and the Furious" is the most thrilling ride you'll ever take!
2002-09-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and The Furious has to be one of the greatest movies I have seen in a while!!  Its got awesome cars, and great racing scenes!  It is a close portrayal of real street racing in the Bigger cities.  I would recommend everyone watch it!  You may not like it, but I sure thought it was great! I cant wait untill number 2 comes out!!!  YIPPIE!
2001-12-23	4.0	38	49	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) rules the streets with his "team" in the world of illegal street races.  Running a luncheonette and a garage, Dominic makes money to pay for the mortgage on his house, and keep his sister (Jordana Brewster) in school, but that money alone is not enough so he resorts to the illegal ways to keep the cash flowing. Vowing to kill himself before returning to prison, Dominic stays one step ahead of the police until he meets Brian (Paul Walker), an undercover cop investigating a series of bizarre truck heists.The FBI believe Dominic and his crew are behind the robberies, and it's Brian's job to find enough evidence against, but putting together the case against this crew will prove to be difficult because Brian becomes friends with Dominic and starts to understand his difficult life, and at the same time he is falling in love with his sister.  To make matters worse, Dominics rival Johnny Tran drops in to settle some old scores, and the list of suspects in the robbery case is growing larger.`The Fast And The Furious' is top-notch entertainment.  Containing serious action sequences, and a thrilling mystery of the robberies, `The Fast And The Furious scores on many levels.  The action scenes are some of the best filmed racing sequences I have ever scene, and the pulsing soundtrack keeps things at a high energy level.The performances from Walker, and Diesel are right on the money, and the supporting cast of Brewster, Michelle Rodriguez, Chad Linberg, Johnny Strong and Ted Levine bring life to the characters they play.Great action, and a pulsing soundtrack will keep you glued to your seat for two hours of entertainment.
2001-07-06	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Ok, before i went and saw this movie, i had not idea that the white guy was a cop...didnt figure that out till the beginning when he is 'arrested' but anyways, from the first sequence it held me in my chair like no movie since the matrix and fight club has done...amzing...i love the cars and teh story wasnt all that bad if you ask me...at least it had some beef to it rather than just pointless rambling on and pointless rivalries and, not to spoil it, but i really thought the asian group was behind the lifting of the tv's and stuff...i guess i was wayyyyyyy wrongMAN I CANNOT WAIT UNTIL THIS BABY COMES OUT ON DVD!!!! WWWOOOHOOW
2012-04-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	American street racing action film. Paul Walker plays Brian O'Connor a FBI agent who goes undercover and enters the street racing world. Vin Disel plays Dom Toretto, the leader of the street racing world.
2001-06-28	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I think this was the best movie ever. I loved the way Dom's character formed. At first he was a mysterious character and then he came to life. I also liked the stunts performed by the vehicles and the characters. The music was in all the right places and the actors and actresses were wonderful. I hope they come out with a second F&amp;F! P.S. Dom is so hott!
2014-01-31	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	seeing how it all started was really cool. can't wait to see more and know that paul was a great actor!
2002-01-17	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is plain terrible.Anybody ever seen Point Break, this movie is a copy. They just use a different instrument. In Point Break it was surfers and here it's F and F its cheap cars. eclipse's and civic's? lol. Comon guys. The acting sucks!!! How can you say this movie was good. Pearl Harbor was even better then this. I've seen every movie since back in the day, and wow this one is def. in the bottom 10 worst
2001-07-27	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was great!! Hot chick, hot cars, fast chicks and fast cars.  Now that is a movie.  But unfornatly my pathitic little 4 cylinder wont ever do that kind of stuff.  The story line was a little weak but i didnt go to see it for the story.  If you like Gone in 60 you will love this movie.  And if you love sported out cars you will love this movie.  If you love woman you will love this movie.  And if you love fun this is the movie for you!!
2002-06-19	3.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you like cool cars, hot chicks, and don't really care much about the story/characters, this is a great movie to watch.If you like the setup of this movie, but want to see better character development, more believeable story, check out 'No Man's Land' (D.B Sweeney, Charlie Sheen). oh, it also got nice cars (mostly Porsche :D)
2002-07-16	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The fast and the furious.one of my 2001 favorite movie.I don't want talk too much about this movie.I just need tellaction movie fan. You must buy this DVD.There are a lot of god stuff in this DVD like mtv,music highlights . movie magic interactive special effect...{ there is a saliva's song in mtv section , cool MTV}Cool movie cool dvd.
2002-11-04	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The words &quot;speed, strength and danger&quot; are the ones which characterise this movie!!  It is fast, illegal and makes adrenaline reach its peak... A movie that should not be missing from a car fan. The fact that they gathered so many people to take part in the movie because of their tuned-up cars is something that makes it even more interesting for a car fan and even more tempting for someone to see what the special effects in collaboration with the &quot;tough guys&quot; can do... A very good movie undoubtedly!!
2001-08-26	3.0	4	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	First of all, folks, I've never liked movies about cars and racing, that's why maybe my soulmates would find this review helpful and objective, and I'm out of the 14-19 y.o. age group as well. After I've seen the boom-bah-crash trailer, I expected the F&amp;F to be even worse than the hollow last-summer drivel &quot;Gone into 60 seconds&quot;. Maybe it's the effect of being fed up on weak movies packed with CGIs (like Tomb Rider, Cats&amp;Dogs, Final Fantasy etc), but the F&amp;F had somewhat refreshing effect on me. Let's leave the threadbare plot aside, for its just being there to bring the main characters together; and by the end it becomes so lame that it is not important any more who and why was stealing those trucks, as well as how on Earth P. Walker's character would face the ramifications of his generous actions a cop undercover would never perform. Oh, never mind... However, the movie is pulled out by the V. Diesel and P. Walker duo, the first being so eye-strikingly young and handsome it's unthinkable to sent him undercover ANYWHERE. V. Diesel, despite his pitbull face expressions, excersises the unmistaking magnetism of a &quot;bad guy&quot; who actually is a &quot;misunderstood good guy&quot; with a &quot;history&quot;. These two dudes do have some chemistry together, and it's not only for you, girls, to notice that. Add up lots of roaring engines, expensive cars being crashed at 160 mph, some scantily clad girls, pumping aggressive music - and get a perfect summer movie, fast paced and furiously shot. What kept me nagging, though, is what do Chinese people think of them being portrayed so violently trigger-happy in this flick? Not your worst choice for an evening out, provided you can tell the difference between Honda and Ferrari and you leave your critical side at home.
2013-07-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	one of my top 10 favoret movies of all time. i would recomand it to any one who is an import fan, and loves raceing
2002-01-04	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Oh my god this movie was the bomb!! A total guy movie though. This movie hit the spot when it comes to action, especially the racing scenes. Anyway wait for this to come out and buy it and really get a bargain.
2002-09-25	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious is probably the best movie of it's type to come out in many a year.  Vin Diesel as Dominic Toretto is rock solid in his performance as a good bad guy.  Paul Walker does a good job as the undercover cop Brian O'Conner.  The story line is well used but does not drag on and on as some do.  Basic undercover cop meets decent ex-con and becomes friends. Of course it does not hurt that Brian falls for Dominic's sister Mia Toretto played by the beautiful Jordana Brewster of The Faculty.  Plenty of fast cars, beautiful women and a good story line make this a great movie.  Dominic's girlfriend Letty played by Michelle Rodriguez proves girls like fast cars as well.  If you like cars and girls and who doesn't, grab this movie.
2002-02-18	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Ok, I know my review is like 428th and no one will ever read it but i have to write a review cause the films classic. I LUVVVVVV car films! gone in 60 seconds is probaly my uther favourite movie.THIS IS A CAR MOVIE.Ive read other reviews sayin the actings bad, bad plot, unrealistic etc. Ok the plots not the best but that wasnt what i was lookin for. Rob Cohen has shown the culture of illegal street racing perfectly.FIT girls, FIT cars and rock hard guys. Especially like vin diesels character Toretto. The cars are brilliant, races are brill and you havent got a dead complicated plot. WATCH THIS FILM!
2002-05-29	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I was a little unsure about all the previews but the film blew me away. Never before had i seen more amazing stunt and effect work at this level for this type action movie. I thought that the story was dead on and the race scenes off the meter. you can't help but give props to the cast, crew and director for taking such a risk with this inovative film subject.
2009-01-01	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Bottom Line:An unapologetically dumb movie, The Fast and the Furious offers a lot of eye-candy (from pretty boys and girls to high-speed chases) and little more, but that's not so bad, is it?
2002-01-07	2.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Oh wait, characters do not matter in an action packed film like this one. Its all about the cars, women, the special effects, and the speed! Hmmmm, seems more like the definitive film for a Kid Rock fan, then the good Art-house flick. Well, if you like action, get this film. Otherwise, if your like me, come on over and watch Emma.
2002-02-09	1.0	5	9	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I saw this movie last summer with a friend to kill an afternoon. After the credits rolled we left the theater with two different thoughts in our heads. My friend was thinking "Man, I want to get a Honda and upgrades and a five inch muffler and participate in illegal street races (He says this despite that fact that we reside in a dull, suburban town nestled along the Hudson river where the maximum speed limit is thirty miles an hour)!" I was thinking "Why did I see this?" This movie is terrible, one of the worst films I've ever seen. The script is horrible--so horrible that the fungus lurking under my kitchen sink could write better stuff. The acting is laughable. It is laughable for two reasons, 1) Being that the person in charge of casting is a dog or a toddler or a rock (I'd say all three, but that would be giving too much credit), and 2) The horrible script gives these "actors" the worst lines imaginable. The plot is far-fetched and corny. It involves street racers who hijack trucks full of electronics and showboat while they do it. A young cop who drives around in a reved-up, neon Honda (Oh, so that's the new police squad car...) comes to investigate the hijackings and gets involved in the secret world of illegal street racing and meets the "Big Man", Torreto. Then he falls in love with Torettos sister. So to sum it up, the cop needs to stop the truck hijackers, marry Toretto's sister, and earn Toretto's respect in the process. Of course there are the predictable plot twists (the cop goes in only to bust Toretto, but then befriends him and feels guilty when he arrests him) and to accompany the predictable twists, there is the predictable ending (Toretto forgives the cop and everyone's happy). The cast is filled with the most simple and campy characters. We have the young, blonde, rebellious cop, the cold-but-misunderstood street racer, the comedic Spanish racer, and the cold, heartless, well groomed Chinese racer. Oh yes, we also have the brainy genious with the sad story (who in the end gets shot to make the people feel even more remorse for him), and the "independent" sister/lover. Basically, the cast stunk. The soundtrack was garbage too, using wannabe hardcore rockers such as the crap-tastical Limp Bizkit. One may suspect that since the movie's about cars, then at least the automoblies should be good, but the movie is incapable of delivering even that. Most of the cars are inexpensive little Hondas. No reved-up Porches or Mustangs here (I could imagine that since the main characters were poor, they wouldn't be able to afford such nice cars, so they hooked them up with cheap ones. But then answer me this: If they can't afford cars like that, then how can they afford the upgrades on their cars?). I strongly suggest this to anyone who is considering renting this movie: Don't do it. This is a terrible movie. You will killing your day and torturing yourself. Go out and rent Pulp Fiction or Saving Private Ryan--you'll be glad you did.
2013-07-29	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Was a good fast action and thrillaction movie, very cool.For movie goers who like car chasesand action.
2013-08-12	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Love the story how it end up and love the story continue with Five Five, I will recommend anyone to buy this item.
2001-06-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is the best action movie in a while.This movie does not slow down a bit.Even on slow seens when people are talking you do not get bored because Vin Diesel brings an awesome presence to the screen.The noise,cars and action sequences are fantastic.You have to see this movie at the theater.
2008-02-04	1.0	3	15	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	THIS HAS TO BE THE WORST RACING MOVIE EVER MADE!!!! WHO EVER WROTE THIS MOVIE HAS NO CLUE ABOUT CARS OR ENGINES!!! FOR EXAMPLE.....WHEN THE CAR IS ABOUT TO BLOW UP BECAUSE THE GANGSTERS SHOT IT,EVERYONE SCREAMS NOSSSSS(NITROUS OXIDE)AND THE CAR EXPLODES!!!! TOO BAD NITROUS ISNT FLAMMABLE,ITS AN OXIDIZER!!!STUPID!!!WHEN PAUL WALKER IS RACING IN THE FIRST RACE HE HITS THE NOS AND THE FLOOR BOARD FALLS OUT OF THE PASSENGER SIDE.....HOW WOULD THAT HAPPEN!!!!HE HAS LIKE A 5 STAGE NITROUS SET UP AND EVERYTIME HE HITS THE NOS THE CAR BURNS OUT AGAIN WHILE HES DOING OVER 100 MPH!!!! COME ON....AND NOW ME AND THE MAD SCIENTIST HAVE TO TEAR APART THE ENGINE CAUSE YOU FRIED THE PISTON RINGS....WHAT A JOKE!!!
2002-01-08	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This happens to be the first dvd that made my wife exclaim loudy, &quot;Wow, that sounds great!!!&quot;  Considering she never understood why i spent so much money on my surround sound system untill this dvd says a lot.Plot wise it's weak but who cares!!!  Visually it's not much different than most dvd's but the action is almost non-stop.If you have a DTS decoder i would recommend this dvd as THE benchmark dvd for showcasing your DTS system.
2002-07-28	5.0	3	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Call this one a guilty pleasure if you must but "The Fast and the Furious" is one of the funnest movies to come out in past years. Explaining the plot to this film is almost meaningless because this film is simply not about plot. It's all about the visuals here. From the sexy girls to fast cars, from the muscular men to the great racing scenes and big explosions, this one is a viusal feast. It's the only movie in the past year that I saw twice at the theater and that is simply because the visuals do not get old. I mean, it was even nominated for an AFI award for Best Cinematography.This is the perfect movie for a kick-back, no-thinking Friday night. It's definitely a "Boys Night Out" movie though, even though I do some girls who enjoy it. The acting is credible (although all they really need to do is look beautiful), the story movies along and the cinematography is excellent. Highly recommended, just don't be expecting an Oscar-winner.NOTE: The DVD is excellent too, containing a lot pf really interesting features. I found the article the most interesting of these as the rest seem to be just things left on the editing room floor.
2002-01-03	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I first saw this movie at the theaters and it was so amazing the story and the graphics were so cool!  Every thing about this movie was great and i was planning on buying the videotape intil i found out it was 70.00$ i think that is way to much to pay for a 2 hour and 30 min. movie but i will be buying it after the price goes down to about 20.00$ this is defintly my favorite movie and if u havent seen it definitly go out and buy it.
2014-07-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Greatest movie ever. RIP Paul Walker
2007-05-01	3.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I agree with the Amazon reviews that said this was a guilty pleasure. While I wasn't interested in any way watching "hot women", the hot and fast action of high power muscle cars and street racing has some merit.  Pure enjoyment and knowledge that this is a movie, not reality.Also... agreement with another reviewer - all my stars go to the racing sequences. They are heart pumping and great to watch.  While not Oscar material and not a movie to develop solid positive role models, definitely good to see if you're in that kind of mood.
2002-01-27	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	How about this?  Why don't we all make a pact not to indulge the Hollywood waz-machine, until the businessmen there stop treating us like hormone-driven teenagers.  Okay, I'm guilty of sitting through this, and the guilt alone should take a year off my life.  But in a day and age when films like American Beauty and Fight Club can fall into the mainstream, doesn't this kind of high-polished and soul-eating flick seem very outdated?  One can only hope so.
2001-10-18	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This film is one of the best I have ever seen! It is certainly a film for those boy racers out there. This film is about street racing, falling in love and catchin criminals! an action packed film throughout. I just dont want to spoil it for u, go and see it now!!!
2014-02-10	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	They are extreme fast and mean machines to drive. Excitement and speed put together. Once, you look at this one believe me you will want the whole Fast and Furious collection.
2013-12-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and Furious was a Great movie to watch. We bought it for Our Grandson for a gift. He loved this movie.
2013-01-01	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Good movie even for a woman to watch. I have enjoyed the series of Fast & furious.I'm glad I bought it.
2001-06-24	5.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast And The Furious is diffenetly not going win an Award any time soon (Well, probably it'll get an MTV award), but it is the best summer movie.  It is exactly what teenagers need for a 3 month break from the thing called &quot;school&quot;....  War movies are good, but only one war movie. You shouldn't have too many in the summer because history is one of those things that school teaches.  Summer movies need hot stars, good music, and stuff that would give grandma a heart-attack.  This movie does just that.The Fast And the Furious could not have been given a better name.  Its fast, very fast, and it is very furious.  That first race was so cool when they hit the gas and the camera flew through the inside of the engine.  I loved that part.  And the very beguining when the car drove right underneath the truck.  It wasn't as good as it could have been because that also happens in National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation, oh well.  This movie is still the summers best and most perfect movie.  There are only two things that could have made it better, more scenes of Dom (Diesel) and his gang stealing the stuff from the trucks, and a bigger part for Ja Rule.  He diffinetly shouldn't of had his name anounced in the preview, when the guy says &quot;Vin Diesel, Paul Walker, AND Ja Rule&quot; it makes it sound like he has the biggest part in the movie, its obvious they were just trying to attract viewers, they still would've been successful if his name wasn't in the preview.  Oh well, still the best movie of the summer, mmmm.
2014-03-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I love this movie today just as much as I did when it was first released.  It's great watching action between characters we grew to love starting withthis movie.
2001-07-04	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is DEFINATLY a summer film! The fast paced action and storyline would fail at the box office any other time of year. I went to see this with a few friends, and we all thouroughly enjoyed it. It was not the most original film ever made, but it was exciting and held my intrest. During the car ride home, all my friends and I could talk about is how cool the cars were and how the movie mixed humor, honor, love, and cars into a successful blend. I reccomend this to anyone who likes action and wants to have a good time.
2002-01-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	First things first. This is a guy movie. There is close to nothing that will peak the interest of women in this movie. There are no sappy love stories, no people traveling around the world to win back their lover's hearts. No, instead there's pulse-pounding action, unbelievable stunts, lots of high-tech racing cars, and LOTS OF WOMEN. Girls making out with each other and lots of skin makes this movie that much better. If this is your kind of movie, get it. You won't be disappointed.
2002-01-24	1.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I watched this movie with my 16 year old son, a fairly new driver.  Predictably, he loved it and I hated it.If the movie was intended as a vehicle (pun intended) for watching teens race customized rice rockets then I guess it succeeded.  However, it failed on just about every other level - little intelligible or creditable plot (just how DID those kids afford the incredibly expensive bolt on go-faster products?), zero character development beyond the cartoon-like stereotypical goodies and baddies bound together (loosely) with literally laughable posturing and dialogue, corny visual set pieces with cars driving round the streets in jet-fighter like formation. At several points in the movie I had to suppress guffaws so as to not spoil the movie for my son.  The entire project felt like it was written from a high-schooler's perspective of what is 'awesome'.Additionally, the soundtrack on the DVD was all over the place.  There was no consistency of volume at all, the sound had to be turned up for dialogue and then the music came in at mind-numbing volume resulting in a mad fumble for the remote control.So, if you are under 20 and want to see a movie about other kids with fast cars then sure, go get The Fast and the Furious. If you are over 20 (or are a mature 18) and you want a car chase within the context of a plausible movie, get Steve McQueen's Bullitt or even The Driver with Ryan O'Neil. Darn, even Gone in 60 Seconds was better than this drivel.
2003-06-18	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Okay, I'm going to be honest with you. The fast and the Furious is simply the best movie around! It just holds onto you. It's a movie you can't miss. Vin Diesel stars in it and let's face it not only is he gorgeous he is extremely talented! :) Not only Vin but Paul Walker, trust me when you see these two together on your screen, you just know it's meant to be!Throughout the whole movie you get a crazy rush through the back of your spine, it's a movie you will NEVER forget! :)Fast cars, Heavy music, sexy guys *for girls and gorgeous babes*for the guys! What more do you want?You don't want to miss it!
2001-06-24	5.0	0	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A good action movie with a good story behind it. It has a likeness to Point Break. Paul Walker, Vin Diesel, Rick Yune, Michelle Rodriguez, and Jordanna Brewster.
2001-06-02	5.0	16	20	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This Movie will have your heart beating FAST and FURIOUS. This movie has some of the most AMAZING Heart pounding RACING on screen ever. The movie is about an undercover cop played by PAUL WALKER (Varsity Blues &amp; The Skulls) who goes undercover to try to investigate a hijacking ring but soon finds himself drawn in to the fast paced world of street car racing by buff VIN DIESEL (Pitch Black). This is one of those movies that will have you on the edge of your seat. I give this movie 5 stars. Good Acting, Great racing sequences and a great flick!
2013-05-28	1.0	1	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Bad plot, bad story.  After hearing so many good things I guess my expectations were set too high.  Lots of unnecessary sexual content.
2003-06-06	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	"FATF" is not a movie I would have expected to see. When it came out I blew it off as just another lowbrow chase film with "some big dumb muscle guy" in the lead. Who needs another stone like Schwarzenegger or Stallone or Jean Claude I-Can't-Act-Worth-a-Van-Damme on the screen?Then I discovered that Vin Diesel has a brain (and a pretty good one at that) and had to see this film. Shortly afterward, I retracted my previous blind criticism. Yes, this is a pretty standard plot (enigmatic criminal, undercover cop sent to destroy him grows to love him and wants to date his sister) but I looked beyond that to content and there is some good stuff here. The chief asset is undeniably Vin. Dom is such a difficult role because he has to be tough, enigmatic, charming, dangerous, and yet vulnerable, and Vin pulls off all of these tasks admirably. Watch the scene where Dom confesses to Brian that he caused irreparable brain damage to the guy he blames for his father's death. There's genuine shame and pain in Vin and he got to me. Bravo!The action is topnotch, the car races and techno-tricks amazing, and everyone gives a decent performance, although if Paul Walker was anymore vanilla I'd have made him sit in an ice cream cone. But forget your logical, orderly, grown-up brain and just watch this movie. You're seeing a superstar named Vin Diesel start to take over the world and believe me, you don't want to miss him.
2002-01-07	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you love cars, racing, or both, you absolutely must see this movie.  There's more street racing and car lingo in this than the Dukes of Hazzard!  If you at ALL like car-chases, than this movie is a must see!
2001-12-28	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	FAST CARS, MODEL/ACTORS, AND HOT LOOKING IMPORTS SET THE SEEN FOR A NONE STOP ACTION MOVIE THAT CAN ONLY INSPIRE MORE STREET RACING.EVER BEEN TO AN IPORT CAR SHOW IN SO.CA.? ALL THE MAJOR MANUFACTURES OF RACING ITEMS AND THE WHOS-WHOS OF RACING CAN BE FOUND THROUGH OUT THE ENTIRE MOVIE. THE CLIMAX COMES WITH THE ULTIMATE RACE SCENE PITTING OLDSCHOOL HOT ROD- V- A SUPERCHARGED  ECLIPSE. WITHOUT GIVING AWAY TOO MUCH I CAN SAY GONE IN SIXTY SECOND COMES IN A DISTANT SECOND. NOW RACE OUT THERE AND GO GET IT!
2013-06-01	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	It was great I love Vin he rocks. The cars are tricked out and pretty custom. The racing keeps you on the edge!
2014-02-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is where it began. The basis for the story that carries six more films. These characters all together make this story and it isn't to be underrated as the real meaning of right choices plays out.  Check this one out first, before seeing the others. It makes a difference.
2012-06-09	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Great movie !!! and watching it in blu-ray is a delight !!! ...plus this blu-ray disc includes all the special features from both DVD versions previously released and new ones ...couldn't ask for more !!!
2014-06-04	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you don't like this movie, you're not a true car enthusiast. Sure, non enthusiats will enjoy it, but it's best enjoyed with a car buddy who can point out all the stupidity (that makes this movie great).Like, why in the hell does danger to the manifold = diamonplate floor mat falls out of the car?Regardless, I no longer have to stop my saturday when this is on cable TV - now I can waste time anytime!
2002-01-22	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	THe fast and the Furious has gotten many bad reviews. i dont agree with any of them. for what the movie is trying to say, it did the job very well. An undercover cop tries to disrupt a band of hijackings that are done by a suspected group of street racers. i ownt give away the ending, but all of the race scenes are excellent. the portrayal of teh racing scene is accurate, i would know being a part of it. also, the cars are some of the best imports on the scene. i would reccomend this movie to anyone who is looking for a fun ride.
2013-06-11	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was fun to watch and had a lot of action with a good story line. This is the first of six movie series and once you watch one you will want to watch them all!
2002-01-06	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was never boring or slow, I'm not into street racing with all the fancy cars (but my husband is &amp; he's not a big movie goer as I am &amp; he loved it.)This movie made you feel like you we're pumped up with adrenalin it kept you on the edge of your seat! And Dominic (Vin Diesel) &amp; Paul Walker are very hot in this movie!!! I would recommened to buy this movie.
2001-12-23	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I think it is a fast movie, and its taking you to the edge of your dreams and eyes,but only if you liked cars .The main stars in this films is acting very cool,most vin dielsel and paul walker try to give it to the edge.And of course a couple of hot (babes),but I mostly love the cars,I think it is the hottest in this movie,but I can recommend this movie to all that like A KICK ON THE EDGE.
2001-07-07	5.0	3	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A great action movie -- the fast-paced plot and amazing visuals draw you in whether you like it or not. If you know little about cars and nothing about racing them, this can be even educational. Despite the old &quot;love vs. loyalty&quot; theme, the story has enough unpredictable moments to keep the tension till the very end. The film has a lot of half-naked women, but it's not as sexist as most of its kind, and the number of hot guys showing off their goods makes it an even trade.  The cars are beautiful, the stunts are outstanding, and the actors are way more than the standard-issue action props. If you gonna see just one summer movie this year, see this one.
2003-08-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Ok, I will agree with the haters of this movie in that it didn't even come close to the reality of street racing. But this is just a movie, so you need the pretty boys to take the leads or else people won't be impressed enough to actually see it. But the fact is that it has the three things men love most, fast cars, hot girls, and good action. So it don't matter if you get Michael Jackson to start in this movie its still gonna do good. So be like me and ignore the lame acting and lack of actual racing and just enjoy it.
2001-07-08	1.0	4	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Package a movie with lots of girls, guys, big bangs, vrooms and Limp Bizkit and Ja Rule songs, and it is almost guaranteed to be a hit. This ... is meant strictly for the MTV audience. No substance at all. I even prefer &quot;The Animal&quot; to this waste.
2009-04-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	As the title says this is the best one of the entire series 2fast2furious and Tokyo drift pale in comparison
2001-06-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	For anyone who was a fan of Vin's previous works, this is yet another movie that you will love. I had been waiting for this movie since I picked up Pitch Black and all his other works. Everyone else that I know went to see this for Paul Walker, I went just for him. The movie was great!! Great camera angles that really threw you off and gave a great perspective of someone in side that industry. I will see it again and again!!! Go see it even if you don't think it looks all that good. Vin will change your mind about the movie and himself!!
2009-10-19	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I got my HD DVD quickly and safely.  It works, need I say more.
2013-02-07	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and Furious is a great movie because it was in blu ray and everyone should watch and own it.
2013-06-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	As far as the film itself it resembles &#34;The Road Warrior&#34;. The characters are all archetypes and are anything but subtle. The action scenes are done with loving care; any use of CAG is well enough done that IMHO it is undetectable. Altogether I found the film exciting and enjoyable,'
2002-02-18	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	When I first heard about this movie, I was told &quot;it's just another 'guy' flick&quot; and advised not to go see it. Well, I ignored that advice and I'm darn glad I did cos it's a great movie! Although the plot is a little weak, the strong cast holds it together and makes it a movie worth watching. Brian is instantly suspicious and the explaination for his behaviour is no big surprise. What is a shock is who is behind the truck robberies; although the suspicion is there the film makers throw the viewer a few red herrings to throw you off the scent. The two female leads are so vastly different that complement each other perfectly and the &quot;team&quot; is so diverse that you never quite know where they're coming from. A bunch of nice cars, and nice bikes, adds the finishing touch to an intimate look at the illegal street racing scene of today's American youth.If you're not sure rent the movie rather than buying it but WATCH IT as it's a great movie with a wondferful cast.And there's always Vin Diesel with his shirt off for the ladies to look at ;-&gt;
2001-09-29	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	My wife and I have seen this movie 3 times in the theater now. I have to admit that after 2 times the initial thrill was gone for me but not for her!! From the cars to the actors it was a great flick. Now this was no intelectual piece so a hisory buff or sci-fi fan wont get much out of it but if you like Vin Diesel and love cars and testosterone then this is the flick for you!!
2013-03-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is made up a great 1 liners and stupid hooked up cars.  Pure entertainment your ashamed to enjoy.
2002-01-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I am very offended by the number of reviews that make this sound like a female cannot enjoy this movie.  My best chick friend and I LOVE this film.  We've seen it...well...an obssessive number of times.  It's fun; it's fast; it's got hot men; it's got good music.  Yes, there's some fine ladies in it too.  Why does that mean that women won't like this movie? or just want to see Vin Diesel without his shirt on- BUY THIS movie!
2013-08-10	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Whoever thought this combination would work; but it does.  Good date night movie.  Enough adrenaline rush for him and enough romance for her.
2001-12-27	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is a very simple and navie movie of car racing. I just can't help laughing when seeing guys just simply pressing button to win the race. No corner, just a straight runway in the races.
2004-11-12	2.0	2	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Rather than just bashing this film (albeit well deserved) let me start with the good points. 'The Fast and the Furious' has good production values, cinematography, and performances. The director does a decent job at maintaining pace and the story does offer some character development. Where this movie hurts itself is: 1) Apparent lack of a technical consultant. In the first race scene, Walker's car begins spewing nuts, bolts, and washers from the dashboard (?). Apparently he has plenty of spare parts in places they should not be. In the same race he burns out his cylinders and yet is still able to outrun the police. This movie is filled with such technical flaws (I won't even mention hitting a semi head on and walking away without a scratch); 2) The good guys are a crooked cop and a thief who hijacks trucks. The bad guys are truckers who defend themselves and Asians.; 3) The film-makers should have seriously set aside their own predjudice.-- Although the technical inaccuracies frankly will not bother many at all (hey, if it's entertaining, why not), it's basic assinine concept of protagonists and it's expressed predjudice make it something I cannot recommend. There are several stellar reviews for this movie on this page that rate this movie as good to great. Just take a look at the number of copies of this DVD which are available and the cheap asking price. This should give you an indication that this is a movie you will not want to see again and that at least a few of the stellar reviews are from people wanting to get rid of their copy.-Bob
2002-01-04	1.0	4	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	&quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; is supposed to be about import-car racing.  Import-car racing is a phenomenon started by Asian American auto enthusiasts, and it's still predominantly Asian American today.  Also, this movie was inspired by an article written by an Asian American journalist.How does &quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; pay tribute to the sport's Asian American heritage?  Why, of course, by whitewashing the story with white and Latino main characters and by making every Asian character in the movie either a villainous gangster or a moll.  What a smear job!  Even outright anti-Asian movies like &quot;The Year of the Dragon&quot; and &quot;Rising Sun&quot; at least made the pretense of being evenhanded by including some &quot;positive&quot; Asian supporting characters.  &quot;F&amp;F&quot; doesn't even make that puny effort.Imagine a Hollywood movie about jazz where all of the jazz musicians are white -- where the art form's black heritage is completely ignored -- and where all of the black characters are the irredeemable villains we're supposed to hiss.  Maybe you'll get an idea of just how egregiously anti-Asian &quot;F&amp;F&quot; is.  What's especially disappointing about this movie is that it's directed by Rob Cohen, who also made the laudable &quot;Dragon: The Bruce Lee Story.&quot;
2001-07-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If you loved Gone in 60 Seconds, this will knock your socks off. I can't say enough about this movie. Must see ASAP. Fast cars. Awsome camera shots. Fast action. Everyone and anyone will love this movie.
2004-05-10	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I have to say that this movie did have its good points, to any women reading this review, Paul Walker and Van Diesel are HOT! The cars are cool and the racing rocks (though stupid and should only be in a Hollywood movie and not on &quot;real&quot; streets)! I have to admit that the plot is pretty much non-existant and some scenes could have been left on the cutting room floor. I gave this movie 3 stars because;1) The cars are really cool!2) Paul Walker and Van Diesel are hot! and3) You have to give credit where credit is due, it was a well filmed movie and the camera angles were also very well done, (I work with filming TV and so I see little mistakes in everything, but this one I saw hardly anything. That gives it a thumbs up from me).I realise some of my stuff is bias but I actually liked the movie. So for what its worth, if you go to your local video store and buy a &quot;previously viewed&quot; version for $15 or less its a good movie.But please, DO NOT TRY ANY OF THE STUNTS AT HOME! Because if that's your plan than don't bother watching it. Thank you and good night!
2002-01-28	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	There are some flashy scenes with the Japanese cars, but that's not enough to hold this turkey up. The chase scenes in Bullitt and the French Connection are still unchallenged.This is an teenage fantasy movie. That's the only way you can explain the glaring implausabilities. This doesn't explain the bad story, weak script, and boring chase scenes.I was hoping for better brain candy, but came up snake eyes.
2003-11-03	2.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I liked this movie better when it had Keanu Reeves and was called 'Point Break'...Now that I got that rip out of my system I can be a little more objective.  Not a bad movie, all the performances are well done and the action scenes are a lot of fun.  However, it's not exactly breaking any new ground either.I'm really not sure I'd spring twenty bucks to buy a copy, but it's definitely something I'd make it a point to see at some point.
2003-11-05	2.0	2	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I liked this movie better when it had Keanu Reeves and was called 'Point Break'...Not a bad movie, all the performances are well done (although disposable) and the action scenes are a lot of fun. However, it's not exactly breaking any new ground either.I'm really not sure I'd spring twenty bucks to buy a copy, but it's definitely something I'd make it a point to see either as a rental or on cable.
2002-01-02	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Welcome to the fast world of The Fast And The Furious wherewhere stock car racing is a way of life and the high life alwaysis whithin reach but for a furious life it comes with a price.The young hotshot streetwise stock car racer legend Dominique whois played convincingly by (Vin Deisel) is operating a private andillegal garage and truck heist operation with asian partnership,and gang including his tomboyish sister who is a pro at the wheelherself.The FBI beleive Dominique is even deeper in the quagmireof his fast and dangerious high life , so they bring undercovercop Brian (Paul Walker) to the table they ask him to befreind ,Dom and get inside his illegal operations.But little does Brian know that his personal feelings for hisnewfound friend and his case will come crashing down on him forDom he would rather die then to go to jail, Dom is not at faultwhen he just want's to take care of his own in this entertainingcar chase drama.The car chase scenes in Furious make the FrenchConnection look like a ride to the local store for they are someof the best hollwood has ever commited to screen some of the mostawsome cars ever to grace the screen and with sound in Dolby andDTS Digital the films soundtrack and racing scenes should soundawsome and a far better film then last years earlier relese ofDriven plenty of options to keep you busy.So if you want onehell of a fast and furious ride look no further then The FastAnd The Furious.
2013-08-06	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is the one that started it all the deleted secens could be a little bit better all in all a good movie
2001-08-10	5.0	3	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I just wanted to say that you couldn't have a better combination than fast cars and Paul Walker. Every part of the movie kept me wondering what was going to happen next. The movie was exciting from beginning to end. I love Paul Walker and The Fast and The Furious is no doubt the best movie I have ever seen. Ladies....If you love Paul Walker, see the movie.......Men if you love fast cars, see the movie...It's definitely worth seeing whether you're male or female. GO SEE IT!!!!
2002-01-08	1.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Even hot women and fast cars could not save the horrible acting and stupid plot of this movie.  After watching, all I could do is sit and think that I had just wasted one hour and forty-seven minutes of my life!  This movie was bank rolled buy the "bolt-on" car parts world!  Bolt on a turbo to your moms honda and race tomorrow!  If he has a nine second car in the shed why does he spend all the money to build the other one!?!?!
2006-01-09	1.0	5	18	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I can't give it any less than one star but what the heck, The girls were hot so there's the one star. Other than that I am literally dumber after watching this movie! I swear to god! I passed out after watching this film because I got so stupid I forgot to breathe! They should stop beating around the bush and hire retards from the mental home to play the lead roles because lord knows they would have done a better job! Even if they just ran around the set yelling "1,2,3, Potato Salad, March!" The dialogue would have been 1000 times better. Message to the producer:Give it up loser!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
2008-01-07	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Gives a bad name and reputation to all real tuners and racers.  So stupid it is comical.
2007-09-07	3.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is a half decent movie but not one I'd like to watch again.  If you're a fan of Paul Walker, Vin Diesel, cool cars, or hot chicks then this one's for you, otherwise, don't bother.
2002-12-02	3.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	And bad plot, and bad acting on both the main character's part. I really enjoyed the movie because of the stupid college-boy dialogue which really helped show that car movies aren't entertaining past car scenes. The car scenes were great, of course we all love seeing suped-up rice rockets and Supras, all being driven by macho testosterone-pumped pigs.Vin Diesel plays a bonehead who knows how to drive stick like a man, and Paul Walker plays a pansy who can't. Really I don't see how Paul Walker was supposed to be a break-out hit, given the casting of Walker and the weak dialogue...It is a rather important movie if you are a fan of action/driving films and want to be informed of the lowering quality of movies of that genre.
2001-12-27	1.0	3	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Really Bad, After watching it at my local multiplex i had kids in 110hp hondas trying to shut down my 340 duster (12.340 @ 108.26 with a 1.710 60 ft time) leaving the parking, lot I mean I've seen hondas run in the twelves but with [an amount] of work ,Big Deal! I have less than 5 grand in my car. In one scene Paul Walker's car nitrous system overboosted? and blew the floorplan out of the car, what the...? Did I mention to get those cars to look like 11 second cars they had to CGI them and to top it off Vin Diesels Dads Charger doing a burn out and wheelie WHAT!!.And his dad died at the last turn of a drag race??It's bad when hollywood makes these pop culture movies without real research and in turn make 200 million.remember theres no replacement for displacement..
2005-12-24	1.0	4	9	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	...seriously. Knock it off with this garbage.
2009-05-23	1.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	it's a good movie seen it before but there is a white box in the lower right hand corner thru the entire movie and it is really annoying!
2001-07-24	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is the best car movie i have ever seen with Gone in 60 Seconds in 2nd place. The fast and the furious shows complete detail of cars, car parts and the life with cars on the streets!! Overall i think this movie is my favorite movie.
2002-01-30	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I really enjoyed this movie. I went to see it in the theater when it came out with my friend who is really into cars. I'm not a big fan of cars, or action movies for that matter, so I assumed I wouldn't like it all too much. But...I was wrong. It is full of action and anything else a male age 13-25 would probably like. It does have some flaws, and its critics. Many people criticize this movie, because of it &quot;unrealistic&quot; aspects. I don't doubt that there are many unrealistic things in this movie, but since I'm not a car-nut that doesn't bother me. If you are buying the DVD version, you're also in store for some nice features. There are several music videos and mini-documentaries about the special effects, stunts, editing, and the overall making of this film. Keep in mind; I am a 16 year old male. If you are female, or not very close to my age, you may despise this movie. I genuinely enjoyed it, and bought it just days after it's release to own. If anything, it's fun to watch.
2001-09-20	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I was lucky enough to see a sneak preview of the movie the day re it opened at a local theatre, and I would just like to say it was awesome. It is one of those movies that takes me back to some of the most traditional of action movies. It is everything an action movie should be, it's got women, fast cars, and the one and only VIN DIESEL. All I have to say is that is reason enough to go see this movie because his on screen presence is just phenomenal. I definitly see him becoming the next, say, Robert DeNiro.
2003-07-06	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Ok, when this movie came out it was pretty much a teenage staple. The guys liked the cars (although my gearhead friends and I would've preferred more American muscle) the girls (excuse the stereotype please) liked Vin Diesel. I remember the first time I saw the movie I didn't really understand what was going on, and the second time I realized why, this movie is missing a concrete plot, which didn't stop them from making a ton of money, and a sequel.
2011-04-18	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Rewatching the first 4 Fast movies to get ready for Fast5. Hard to believe the first one was from 2001 but overall it has aged well for being 10 years old.  I snickered when they were stealing TV/VCR combos, and plot is they are stealing DVD players.  My 15 yr old son saw it for the first time and liked it.
2001-07-01	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I would have to say that this is the best movie I have seen in years.  This movie gives you an adrenaline rush and you feel like you are actually in the cars with the actors/actresses.  Vin Diesel is absolutely wonderful in this movie.  I recommend everyone to watch it over and over.
2009-12-15	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious in Blu-Ray HD is fabulous!!  Great colors and detail.
2002-01-31	2.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I rented this DVD with my ex. Of course, it was more of his kind of mobie than mine because it's a "guy movie". Anyway, I thought that there'd be more action and more cars. However, I was disappointed. The plot (but then again, who cared about the plot?) was flat and the characters (except Letty) were pretty weak and fake. Overall, I fell asleep towards the end of the movie.
2002-02-27	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Fast and the Furious works ,but we have seen this before. Still you wonder, have the Movie Studios stopped making risky movies? It is a recycled car movie that has all that what the other movies give to you ,but It's not a bad movie at all.I like Vin Diesel as this sort of the God of this group of nightracers. Paul Walker is very slick(SEE PAUL IN JOY RIDE!!!) actor both him and Diesel I think are very talanted.All this movie is, is a fun summer blockbuster to watch....no logic required just buckle your seat belt.... Honestly I wished Universal Pictures could have used a better movie to appeal to Teens versus what we have seen before. Stars **1/2
2001-08-19	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The movie was good, it had lots of cool cars, the problem was the races would last 5 minutes, where they would say they were running the quater in 10 seconds. It was enjoyable, the best part being when Vin pulled out the dodge charger. &quot;The supra has 150 thousand dollars invested in it, and does the quarter mile in 13-14 seconds.&quot; Thats true...
2002-09-01	1.0	3	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I recommend you buy any movie but this. Don't waste any time buying, waiting for it to come in the mail, and watching this crappy movie.  This is a disgrace to movies.  I heard this movie was good, then i watched it.  It seems this movies plot was made by a crazy monkey who writes with his poop on walls.  Do not waste your good 20 bucks on this movie I beg of you DO NOT BUY THIS DISGRACE TO ALL THINGS CALLED "MOVIES"!!
2013-07-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Action packed with characters you believe.  It's the relationships that make this series stand out from the rest of the cheap action oriented movies.
2002-05-01	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	An exciting film about a group of hijackers hiding under the guise of well funded street racers, and that cop that is persuing them.  The film moves along at a high octane fast pace, and well staged stunts keeps the audience highly entertained.  I am an avid fan of the street racing scene, and found this movie highly entertaining.  Vin Diesel is excellent with the screen presence equal to any of the big name action stars. As is Paul Walker as the well toned, good looking undercover cop.  I hope to see both again very soon in Fast and the Furious 2.  For added fun compare this film to another guilty pleasure of mine Point Break, and watch the similarities unfold.  Make a day of it.  Don't try to overthink the film.  Just enjoy its turbo-charged, giggle gased, thumping stereo escapism that it is. Enjoy!!
2003-10-15	1.0	3	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is awful. Vin Diesel is an awful actor, the screenplay is absolutley trash, the director obviously has no idea how to make a good movie. Vin Diesel always plays the tough guy and it was good for a change to see a different kind of role in Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan. Everything is too fake. TOO fake. Don't be fooled by the awesome action, all right, it's too fake. Beleive me, my father was a race car driver, he's seen this movie, it's all bull. He noticed a fault every time they got into a car. This is a pathetic try at a tough racing movie. Trust me, it's not worth it.
2001-12-08	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The last film Rob Cohen and Neal Moritz teamed up to make, "The Skulls", exposed its audience to the dealings of a prestigious Ivy secret society of the same name; a name that would conjure up images of long-bearded, forty-plus year old men, fully clad in tasseled leather apparel cruising the streets of suburbia on their two-wheeled "crotch rockets".Actually, the previous description is remarkably similar to a scene in Cohen/Morits'z latest production, "The Fast and The Furious".  All you've got to do is replace the long-bearded, forty-plus year old men with a couple of well-mannered Asian gentlemen, the leader of whom is a well portrayed character Johnny Tran (Rick Yune).  Recycle a main character from "The Skulls", Caleb Mandrake (Paul Walker) and give him a "typical whiteboy name", Brian Spilner, and you've got a new movie.Spilner is a young undercover officer trying to find out what group of street-racers is hijacking semis worth millions of dollars before the truckers, the short-tempered hooligans they are, take matters into their own hands.  And if Spilner cracks the case he'll have the opportunity to become a detective--his dream ever since he was just a young lad put in juvie for boosting cars, an experience that he never really had, but that somehow ends up helping him later in life.Somewhere after putting movies like "She's All That" behind him and stepping up to the plate in "Varsity Blues" and "The Skulls", Walker seems to have lost the ability to put sentences together in a believable tone of voice.  It's hard not to think Walker slipped into a couple of classes at Keanu Reeves's School of Acting, as seen on SNL.  On more than one occasion, his acting is outdone by a couple of bed-wetting elementary schoolers doing a production of "A Christmas Carol".  Walker's bad acting is particularly flagrant in a scene where Spilner has to convince the kingpin of the illegal street-racing world, Dominic Toretto (Vin Deisel), that he isn't a cop.  Not very convincing now, are we?  Toretto bought it, yet I surely hope he kept his receipt.On the other hand, Toretto (or "Dom" as he is lovingly called by his groupies, er...I mean "team") is played well by Deisel.  He plays the role with thoughtfulness and sincerity to his character.  He's a badass when he has to be, yet nice enough to fool you into believing he's a slightly oversized Teddy Ruxpin.  Maybe not.  With a name like Vin Deisel you can't help but be ready to land your fist into the darkside of someone's face, but a little Xanax never hurt anyone.  In all seriousness, Deisel plays one of the better roles of his career in this movie, aside from the minor roles he played in 2000's "Boiler Room" and in 1998's "Saving Private Ryan".I do realize I just compared "The Fast and The Furious" to the award-winning "Saving Private Ryan", but not without due respect.  The level of intensity reached in the movie is exhilarating and pulls the viewer directly into the driver's seat of a 600 horsepower pile of sheet metal that rockets from zero to sixty in less than five seconds.  Upon viewing the film, I caught myself with wide-open eyes and a dropped jaw more than once.If you're wondering where the scantily clad women are in the film, you've not much farther to look than Toretto's little sister Mia (Jordana Brewster).  Brewster playfully tantalizes you with her ultra low-rise jeans and skimpy t-shirts, but more so she attracts the attention of Spilner, similarly to how cheap coffee and donuts attract L.A. police officers.  Oddly enough, Spilner's higher-up police officials are typecasted as Starbucks drinking, bagel eating men who occupy a house that was originally designed for Elizabeth Taylor back in the 1950's.As with most movies of this sort, there always has to be at least one hotheaded moron with raging fists and a mental incapacity for any common sense.  Well, here you'll find a couple, most of whom are a part of Toretto's team and most of whom must have made Walker their mentor and inspiration for acting.  This does nothing but bring a few chuckles from the audience for a movie that could use an extra laugh or two.At any rate, Cohen does an excellent job keeping the action moving throughout the film; and the plot, while rather basic with no mysterious twists, is appealing and does well to hold the viewer's attention.  Spilner's typical white-boy attitude matures into one of respect, but the ending is the kind that doesn't seem to leave many viewers happy and which just hankers for a sequel.  Rumor has it it's already in the making.  I just hope the second shares the same passion for adrenaline as the first, and a lot better acting.
2001-06-26	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie has great camera work...The storyline is interesting too. It has some of the besat cars and it just makes we wanna drive!!! If you're gonna see a move...this is the movie to see! Overall, its an &quot;action packed thril ride in your seat&quot; type of movie.
2001-07-14	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	To be able to make a movie great without having a hole lot of sex is supper hard. This movie tells the story of a cop trying to find who's behined a series of hi-jackings. In order to do that he has to get into the world of illegal street car racing. The cars in this movie blew me away, and the screenplay was something to remember. I'll watch the movie over and over again with ecxitement.Seann Moriarty
2001-07-02	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The fast and the Furious was an excellent movie.  Be prepared to take an extra supply of oxygen with you - you'll need it. It's intense the whole way through.  The leads are beautiful and project an acting ability so perfectly fitted for the film you actually lose yourself in it. It shows your &quot;bad boys&quot; have big hearts when it comes to people they care about, and love.  I loved it and you'd be crazy not to see this film, Paul Walker and Vin Disel are great actors...they really bring it to life.
2007-07-23	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I am NOT a fan of cop flicks or action movies.  Too many people walk away with busted lips and fractured legs one day and are walking around like models and ballerinas the next, but this movie made a great effort to remember the pain each character experienced the day before, not to mention that I think Vin Diesel is sexy, especially when he grabbed that woman up by her rump.  But I didn't love this movie just for that love scene (although I ABSOLUTELY loved that scene) or for the action or for the consistency. It was the cars that did it for me.  I went to the Chicago auto show and for me, that was almost like writing. I was so content looking at all the different makes, models, paint jobs, and speed of each car at the auto show and absolutely in this movie. On top of that, I'm a big fan of speed (don't tell the police though) so when you put all of that together into one pretty interesting movie, there was now way this film was going to lose for me. I enjoyed it from beginning to end, and I didn't even pay attention to the idea of cops trying to arrest and stop speed racing because I was so wrapped up in the underlying plot so I didn't pay attention.
2013-03-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	came as described. brand new no damage arrived promptly. very satisfied with the sellers description and actions. 3 more words
2001-10-01	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Vin Diesel is in his best movie yet in Fast and the Furious! He's hot and Paul Walker is a very good compliment to Vin. There is a LOT of action, but there's also a little romance. It's the perfect date movie. Action for the guys, romance for the girls. No mushy stuff. =) I've already seen it 3 times in theatres, and I'm definately going to buy it when it comes out on video! I strongly suggest seeing this movie if you like cars, driving fast in cars, or just like incredibly edible guys =).
2002-11-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is by far the best action movie in the world in my opinion it has everything a guy could want hot chicks, hot action, &amp; even hotter cars, I believe that this is Vin's breakout movie as he does a supperb acting job &amp; makes you the viewer love the bad guy.  Anywho if I could I would give this movie 100 stars.  Ciao for now.
2013-11-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I love this movie and its pretty had to find in most places. But Amazon had just the copy for me. Even a one for my friend! Used even, its awesome!
2001-07-12	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and the Furious was the best movie I have seen in a long time! I love movies that are full of suspense and this one definately has that! There is a great plot and a sense of love between almost all of the characters in this movie. Plus hot guys like Vin Diesel aren't hard on the eyes at all!! Go see it!!
2001-07-01	2.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	There all kinds of movies--this is the kind where you sit back for some brainless, raucous fun. Once again, as in Pitch Black, Vin Diesel finds a role that fits him well. He's a hugely-muscled dude with an ominous voice and an electric charm. When the street racers gather, he holds court like a king. Paul Walker comes off as more of a wannabe. He's extremely attractive, but he's like a hot sports car with no engine. As for the women, the only two with major parts annoyed me (Michelle Rodriguez, who plays Dom's girlfriend, looks so much alike Alicia from Survivor II it's positively creepy). The rest of the women are bimbo groupies flipping their hair and thrusting out their enhanced breasts in hopes of meeting a fast man with a hot car. Clearly--the women, the cars, the danger--this is a guy flick. For what it was, I enjoyed it--of course, I didn't come to see fast cars--I came to see Vin. :) One word of warning--the movie has a very LOUD soundtrack (the music from the movie drowned out the talkers and cell-phone-answerers instead of the other way around for once)!
2001-07-22	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Fast and the Furious is the tightest movie!! there are fine guys in it plus tight cars. I've seen it 4 times and i would go see it another 50 million times. Vin Diesel is so hot and most of those cars are soo kool. Its one of the best movies i ever saw!!
2001-07-28	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Man what can i say. this movie movie was awesome. the only thing wrong was there were too many many import cars, also known as rice burners. i would see the whole movie just to see the end cuz nothing beats a 69' charger powered by a hemi with an air intake. that thing had over 900 horsepower. it had so much torque that it lifted the front end of the car for that long when he popped the clutch and believe me the front end of that car is heavy. it puts all those stupid import cars to sleep. i would have liked to hear more roars of muscle cars than the squeels of rice rockets.
2009-04-14	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Paul you suck, what is wrong with people, am I the only one who see's it.
2001-06-23	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Some scenes in the movie were impresive, and the racing wasn't bad, much better than Driven. But the story was meaningless and confusing, even misleading to the kids; And the acting was not superb. Some of the plot didn't make any sense, and the ending was so unfinished.  By the way, the sound was extremely loud during the movie, I had to cover my ears. Still, some parts really did grab my attention. So, three stars.
2002-01-03	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I would say this is a good date movie but then I might just be the only girl in the whole world willing to sit through an action movie. It's got action for the guys and hottie's for the girls. my friends and I went to see it three times. Rookie cop Brian (Paul Walker) gets pulled in to the dangerous and illegal world of street racing after being assigned a case to find out who is robbing semis of jewelry and electronics. Brian gets more then a tough case, he finds a friend in Dominic (Vin Diesel)Leader of the top street racing gang in L.A. He gets accepted into the gang which includes several of Dom's friends his sister and his girlfriend. Brian winds up falling in love with Dom's sister and gets pulled deeper into the family secrets. When he finds out that Dom went to jail for assult and battery he learns that Dom would kill himself before he goes back to jail. But with all evidence pointing to Dom and his gang Brian must decide if he can turn in the man who had become his friend,and leave the only place that he has ever belonged. The special effects on this movie were great and the car chases were awesome!! Buy it,rent it,see it, but whatever you do don't miss it.
2002-01-11	5.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Someone tolde me I wouldn't like this movie cuz I'm a girl. I think he needs to find his brain.This movie is about a cop  Brian, (Paul Walker) who works for the FBI, who is trying to bust a robbery ring. The FBI suspects the elite street racing gang of the robberies. So Brian gets sent undercover to the streets of downtown L.A. as the new street racer.The problem is getting into the gang, you have to win a race against the best of the best Of course he's not gonna win even if his car did cost $15,000. and on top of that the gang doesn't like him very much on the account of getting caught flirting with the gang leaders sister Mia (Jordanna Brewster), But luckly after the gang leader Dom (Vin Diesel) meets Brian (and after they both get shot at by a rival gang) he decides he likes Brian so he's in. Gradually Brian becomes more and more sure that this gang is not responsible and after a date with Mia he's almost positive that it's someone else. The problem? he's wrong. But he doesn't know if he can face turning in Dom who he has become very good friends with. On top of that he finds out that Dom has been in jail once already  and he'd rather die than go back. Now Brian must choose. Turn in the best friend he's ever known, leave Mia and the gang behind with out a backward glance and get his promotion to FBI detective. Or let Dom go, Say goodbye to Mia,go back to the police station as a cop and kiss goodbye to his dreams of being a  FBI detective.Filled with action,suspense,fast cars,hot guys, and a little romance this is the film of the summer. Forget the one with the little blonde lawyer. SEE THIS MOVIE!!! buy it,rent it,barrow it,steal it,watch it. but whatever you do DON'T miss it!!It is a little unrealistic, I mean I live in L.A and its crawling with cops and traffic even at 3:00 A.M. There is no way that they would be able to race down a public street without getting arrested or getting in an accident.
2002-01-13	4.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The story was used before, but the cars and the racing scenes made up for the movie.
2002-03-16	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I love this movie!!! I don't watch movies for the reality, if you want that then WATCH THE NEWS!The movie revolves around the tried and true plot of a hot young cop, Brian (Paul Walker) befriending Dom (Vin Diesel) the charismatic hero in the underworld of illegal street racers. Throw in customised imports with enough neon accents to light up a football field, hot women who keep up with the guys, a suspect asian gang, the inevitable love affair between Brian and Dom's sister Mia and the desicion for Brian to make about where his loyalties lie  - and you got yourself one slick looking movie!If you love car flicks (did you watch Knight Rider in the 80's?)  this is one Dvd that should be in your collection.
2013-12-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	it was one of those nights i needed to cry and realized he died being fast and furious all because of a Salvadorean guy.
2013-01-05	1.0	1	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Love the movie; But bought this without checking into what an HD-DVD is! My fault! I wish Amazon would stop selling these HD-DVDs as they are obsolete and will not play on regular DVD or Blue-Ray. I wish the warning about the HD-DVD format was more prominently displayed on the top of the order page and not at the bottom.
2002-09-21	4.0	4	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I rented this movie right after seeing xXx to see if my original impression of Vin Diesel would hold. Part of it holds, but I also realize that this movie is more flash and glitz than high caliber acting. It's one of the movies where your park your brain and just enjoy the fast cars, good looking people, and special effects and worry about the plot later.The casting for the movie was pretty good, overall most of the actors were attractive. Vin Diesel, Jordanna Brewster, and Rick Yune fit their roles well, either through the right look, or the right presence. The only person that really didn't fit was Michelle Rodriguez. I can buy the tough girl street facer image, but I can't buy her as Diesel's character's love interest.  There are too many scenes where she's making an ugly face or some rude remark that fits with the tough girl appearance, but not girlfriend role she's also supposed to have.The cars are as big as the actors in the movie. In the "making of" included in the DVD they mention the cars used are actual street racing vehicles, and the extras are fans and racers themselves. I think this really helps out the movie, it takes it from being a just story and actually gives it some credibility. You're not seeing a bunch of young people racing expensive cars, you see everyday people racing everyday cars. Sure, your everyday car doesn't have a bright paint job, sticks, a huge spoiler, and doesn't shoot flames from the exhaust pipe when it takes off, but you can accept that young people would own these kinds of cars.  The Charger used in the last major scene of the movie deserves attention as well, it's a beautiful car. It looks out of place being a muscle car in a world of imports, but it's still a classy car.There are two detractors from the movie: the lack of a good plot and little character development. There isn't much to the plot, a group using tricked out Hondas keeps high jacking semis full of electronic equipment, and the truckers are (angry). The police send in an undercover guy to find out who's stealing the stuff. He falls for the sister of the top street racer in the area, and befriends him. That's really it. The plot isn't that believable, $6 million in stolen electronics is a lot of stuff, and how are you going to offload that much stuff without attracting someone's attention? The character development is sorely lacking as well. We find out very little about anyone in the movie, it's mentioned that most of the characters don't have parents; they're either dead, left, or in jail. You don't find out much more than that, which makes the characters two dimensional.Overall, I'd give the movie 3.75 stars. 1star is for the cast, 1 star for the cars, 1 for the racing and special affects, and 3/4 star because the movie doesn't drag. There's no point where you really feel like the movie is just killing time, which I like. Since I can't use partial stars I'll round up. Overall, it's worth renting if you want to take a break and concentrate on eye candy for a while.
2013-07-08	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I started watching these movies at the 4th or 5th installment so I decided to watch the first. It was a decent movie and explains the dynamic of some of the current crew.
2013-07-21	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	wonderful and great fast paced keeps you entertained the whole time loved it would watch it again and again and again
2001-07-25	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	this is the best movie that i saw all year and i just want to tell all of you gurls out there that Paul Walker is so hott and sexy. and when it comes out on video i want to be the first 1 to buy it on amazon .com or in stores it a gr8 movie at first when i saw the previes i though it wasn't that intresting but when i saw it in the theaters the movie theater was jamed packed and when i saw the movie it's the best. just want to tell you peoples that this a fab. movie..
2008-01-25	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I really like this movie.  I put it on when I don't feel like thinking and just want to be entertained.
2002-01-27	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Ok guys. I'll make this quick. The Fast and The Furious lacks a plot, has crappy acting, and is incoherent in places. Yet I gave it four stars. You might think I'm out of my mind.Who cares?This is a movie based around cars, not people. The cars are amazing. They add crucial substance to this movie. Seeing the cars move (from the S2000 to the Jetta and so on) is exciting. Thanks to them, this movie is great.But wait! If you're still gonna complain about this movie, get something like Gone in 60 Seconds (the one with Nick Cage). It's a lot deeper and is actually humorous in places.On the other hand, if you liked this movie (as I do) and enjoy the cheap thrills of car chases (as I do) get the original Gone in 60 Seconds (the Original, not the '90s remake). You get the same style thrills. It's all cool.
2013-12-03	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Just remember once you see this one you will need to get all the others. And if you are just buying to complete the collection make sure and buy everyone you are missing. Great movies if you like fast cars.
2001-07-19	5.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is by far one of the best movies i've seen before in my life. It was easily the best new movie i've seen in a while. Its the biggest adreniline rush i've ever gotten in front of a screen. You don't even have to like racing to like this movie. People say the actors are un-heard of. But they fit the movie perfect for the parts they're playing with their looks, their voice, and even some of the characters accents. I recomend this movie to EVERYONE.
2008-06-16	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	That's about it.  It's basically a rip-off of Point Break.  In fact the plot is almost exactly like "Point Break".  Think about it.
2001-07-20	1.0	4	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Now you have seen the Fast &amp; Furious.This movie is so terrible, I can only say.....if you have to see it - WAIT for the video.Here's the story....  Undercover cop infiltrates a group of losers who spend astronomical amounts of money (with no identifiable income) on little bitty imports in the quest to develop the ultimate "10 second" car.  The cop becomes attached to the losers and then has to choose between his new friends (&amp; love of street racing) and his career.The film could have made up for the poor story, acting &amp; dialog if they had filled it with stunt driving, but with only 2 interesting driving sequences the movie was a total waste of time.
2014-02-20	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	origin story of how Brian inserted himself into Dom's crew, sort of a triangle love story with the friendship between Dom/Brian and the love story between Brian/Mia. not sure it's believable that an officer would blow his cover like Brian did, I think the story showed Brian's interest in Dom and his crew, and that Brian was moved by their we-are-family behavior, but just don't see an officer giving up his career like Brian seemed to in this story. how will he pay his rent, buy food, etc., if he has no job? also, I'm pretty sure that Brian blowing his cover is against the law, basically he informed a person of interest that the authorities were investigating him. The way Brian informed the perps, without obtaining permission from his supervisors has gotta be illegal - to me, Brian went rogue and though I witnessed his interest in Mia and his liking, even affinity, with Dom, the story would've needed to do a much stronger set up (more information) about Brian, for me to buy him letting them go. what Brian did was career altering and life changing. I know he ends up with the crew in subsequent movies, but this is the story I'm assessing and in this story the writer would've needed to give Brian a history of insubordination, or something more than was presented. Brian and his officer team weren't loving one another, but that wasn't strong enough in my opinion for him to go rogue. acting was fine. stunts were amazing as usual per this franchise, in this the first of the series the driving stunts were not over-the-top-unbelievable, and so didn't push me out of the story. Brian did that. His character didn't work for me but I like how the series has written and presented Dom. I was actually surprised when it turned out he and his crew were the thieves. Given that they are shown to be the perps in the heists, it's even more unlikely that Brian would not have busted them. Dom is not so charismatic that a cop wouldn't take him down after discovering his guilt, no matter how much the officer liked Dom. also didn't like that the N word was used by one african american character to another african american character. indicative of how little power the african american actors had on this production that they couldn't get that racial slur removed from the script.
2013-10-19	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Fantastically modern in its multi-cultural clan/cast and its transitions, all the basics of the series are laid out here as we meet the Toretto family & friends, as well as our good-hearted, love-struck cop O'Brien (Paul Walker) in the underground street racing scene in Los Angeles. The music, the look of the film, the portrayals, even 12 years (and 5 sequels, with a 6th being filmed now) later, this film looks, sounds and feels like something entirely new: an arch-type for the 21st century enfolds through the course of this exciting, entertaining film. Vin Diesel quite rightly became a star with this film: he holds and propels the story to a whole other level. A triumph.
2006-01-28	4.0	2	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The movie is definately meant for us guys. What else could you want? It has fast cars and hot chics. My favorite part of the movie (other than the hot chics) is The Beast. The early 70's charger that's maxed out. Not only is it a beautiful car to look at, but it's got enough horses to satisfy anyone. You know it's been done right with the last drag race they do. I won't spoil the movie any more than that.
2001-07-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie has got the be the best movie out all year. It has all of the tightest cars out there, fully customized, and it gives all of us in the import scene inspiration. And the street racing... Isn't that what we live for? Over all, an excellent movie with great cars, hot women, and a surprisingly well thought out plot.  And in closing... how many of us are now considering taking our slammed Hondas and going under a tractor trailer? Probably everyone of us. See y'all at the shows!
2014-02-11	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Very exciting typical move of that series.  It is expected to be very entertains with high speed action.  The movie lived up to the expectations.
2002-01-19	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I loved this movie.I was the best movie I ever saw.Shur they made a few mistaks but who dosn't.I wanted to rate this movie 100 stars but I couldn't.This move is totley awsome
2003-11-24	5.0	0	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	What is it about this movie?  So many people dismiss it as just another mindless race movie, when it's so much more.What do I see?  As someone born and raised in Southern California, I see a stylized, but faithful, version of where I live: people of different (and mixed) ethnicities, the frictions that develop from diverse cultures and values, the &quot;haves&quot; and the &quot;have-nots&quot; addressing their economic needs in legal, &quot;gray&quot; and illegal ways.  And, what is the common denominator that bring all these people together?  They (we) all love their (our) cars!  The cars are rolling expressions (metaphors?) of who the characters are and, more importantly, who they want to be.  You don't get more SoCal than that!Yes, it was the cars, the racing and the action that initially drew me to F&amp;F.  To get all that, plus a clear-eye look at contemporary life in SoCal, elevates this movie to classic status.
2002-01-24	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This film could have been decent. As it is, it's not the worst out there. But it's full of many holes.Keep low expectations and it might be a mildly entertaining view.** Spoiler Below **My main question is why those truck drivers didn't just hit the brakes? That would have solved everything. Instead they just kept driving along while being harpooned. Things like that really bug me because any idiot could have put a better plot device in there and made it at least mildly realistic.Without that and a quite a few other problems this might have been a pretty decent film.
2001-10-23	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was great! It did lack some story line at places. But it had tons of action to keep it through. No special effects, just old skool fun!
2008-06-30	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Action packed, fairly fast paced movie. Good racing scenes. This movie shows a serious side of todays mini car racing culture.
2014-03-21	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The real stars of this movie are the cars. The story is really well told and is a better movie than the original.
2002-01-22	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Wow, Point Break all over again. And the acting is no better!I had hoped for the best for this movie, since I am a car nut and there are few car flicks that can actually be considered good. But, alas, this one falls into the rubbish heap with the rest. The list forms.....What caused the floorboard to blow out in the hideous green car in the big first race? And how did it return for our hero to rescue Baldy from the cops? Hmmm.Each and every street race I've ever seen didn't have 15,000 people attending. For those who haven't actually been a part of one, they are held in dark, nearly abandoned, semi-rural settings with very few spectators or traffic. The pizza guy sequence was ridiculous.Imports running 10-second quarters in full street trim? Not that I've ever seen to date. Maybe on the strip with slicks, gutted interiors, plexiglass windows, and the boost cranked up to stratospheric levels that will make any head gasket tremble in fear.Lastly, we get to the Charger. Why would Baldy want to even consider messing with building a 10-second import when he has a blown, 9-second Detroit classic hiding in the garage? I wouldn't and I won't. The climactic race scene at the end was the most laughable of all. Coming off the light the Charger yanks the wheels a couple feet AND smokes the tires! WOW! In 15 years of drag racing I've never seen this occur! Probably because it's impossible. Either the car hooks and puts daylight under the wheels (and goes) or it blazes the tires into an expensive cloud of rubber smoke. Not both. Pure nonsense.When Hollywood gets around to making a realistic picture about street racing and it's culture, they can give me a call. I'd be glad to provide some technical assistance.
2002-01-22	1.0	2	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Hmm.....Point Break revisited, and the acting isn't much better. This could have been a good movie, but it lost it in so many areas.In the initial race, why did the floor mysteriously blow out of the hideous green car? And how did Baldy stay in the car when he was picked up after it blew out?High strung rice running tens in street trim? Sorry, don't believe it. Maybe on the strip with slicks, stripped out and running plexiglass windows. I've been around seriously fast street cars for enough time to know better.The coup de grace was the climactic race scene between the Supra and the slick Charger. The Charger pulls the wheels and then smokes the tires??? Sort of defies the laws of physics and the principle of weight transfer. If the car hooked hard enough to pull the tires (nearly impossible on city pavement, by the way) there's no way those rear tires are spinning. They either smoke or hook, no in between - hard to believe this glaring error even made it out of the cutting room.I was hoping for greatness since there hasn't been a good flick made that really reflects the true street racer spirit. I'm still waiting for someone to make a real street racing movie, and will gladly volunteer to be technical director.
2002-02-27	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Stupid story and incredibly, painfully bad acting equal one terrible movie. Just how BAD of an actor is Vin Diesel!?!?!?! This movie sure does showcase just how god awful he really is. Do yourself a favor don't waste the money.
2002-01-02	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is one of the few films of 2001 that kept me rivited the whole way through at the pics. Most action films these days seem, well, all the same but TFATF was a little different. Unlike Gone in 60 seconds, it had more cars, a faster pace. OK, the story was the usual, an under cover police plot but that's not what the film is really about. It was for all the play station and GT car fans out their. If you can sit and enjoy without picking wholes in the flimsy plot, then this is a must see film.
2012-04-08	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Fast and Furious is a good movie. Fun to watch. After watching this movie I always find my self day dreaming of having a nice car to roll in. To look good in. To drive crazy in. Back to reality I'm still stuck with my little white Kia.
2001-07-05	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	First of all, let me say two words... &quot;Point Break&quot;. Anyone see that movie? I thought the plot was too close to Point Break's plot, only, instead of surfboards, it was street machines.Anyhow... the movie definitely fit the name. Ive seen reviews which totally trashed the movie. Isnt it odd, the movies that get trashed by so called critics, always seem to have a great following? I think Paul Walker did a great job in his role, even though I think he was trying to portray a cross between Keeanu Reeves and Ryan Phillippe. Vin Diesel... perfect in his role as well. I mean, you couldnt go wrong with a guy named Diesel in a movie involving street racers. He delivered a nice little monologue which will probably become one that goes down in the books as a favorite... when he preached to &quot;Brian&quot; about winning by an inch or a mile, winning is still winning. Tons of action, and lots of high tech systems in the vehicles featured made this a definite winner for the guys. The hotties in it seemed to help too. The only thing wrong with the movie was the over use of brand names being used, and the fact there were only 3 american cars in the whole flick... the Red F-150 Lightning that &quot;Brian&quot; drove around in, the Charger that &quot;Dom&quot; suped up to over 900 horses under the hood, and the police vehicles. I definitely dig the ending as well. I wont spoil it hopefully, but I will say this... I agree with &quot;Brian&quot;, he owed &quot;Dom&quot; a 10 second car. As far as anything else is concerned, its a DEFINITE MUST SEE!
2002-09-01	1.0	3	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	bad movie. i dont care if my review was helpful or not, but this movie was one of the lamest excuses for a movie ever! if you want to see a good action type movie, see rollerball!
2002-01-29	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The movie is full with Awesome camera angle,special effect , CG...DVD is great..12 deleted scenes (as I remember)..a lot of bonus like Special Effect Composite....Funny Fact! Director appear in the scene as a pizza guy and producer show up in the short scene too but his scene was cut. After I rent this one, I bough it next day..If you just watch from VCR..it's so so..Recommend for incredible camera, action and just a little bit CG!
2002-01-10	5.0	0	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	THIS MOVIE IS THE BEST ACTUALLY THEY REALLY CATCH THE ACTION OF WHAT THESE CARS CAN DO. I LOVE THE BEGINNING WHEN THEY HAVE THE FIRST HUGE STREET RACE. SURPRISINGLY THIS MOVIE IS UNDERRATED AND I DONT UNDERSTAND WHY ITS EXCITING JUST TO SEE THE CARS TOP OUT AND THEN THEY HIT THE NOS (NITRIOUS OXIDE) I CANT UNDERSTAND WHY PEOPLE ARE GIVING ALL THIS FALSE CRITICIZM ITS A GREAT MOVIE THAT I THINK EVERYONE SHOULD OWN.
2002-02-10	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Why do we watch "B" movies?  T & A, right?  Well they replaced the T & A with cars in this movie.  I am not into the Japanese four banger hot rods. I am an American Muscle Car fanatic.  This movie changed some of my views.  The cars in the movie are just plain pretty (especially the one and only Muscle Car, a blown 1968-69 Dodge Charger).  I had no idea the kind of power these cars could produce.  Granted, the acting left something to be desired.  It was bearable, however.  This was an ideal example of a "B" movie, right down to the Cheesy on liners ('I live my of a quarter of a mile at a time').  Your proverbial "naked women" have been replaced with a lot of really nice (expensive) cars.  The plot is simple to follow.  I rated this movie as high as I did because of what it is.  It is a great "B" movie.
2001-07-03	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This was a good movie! There were sexy cars, sexy chicks, sexy guys..hehe.. The action sequences were right on and good. There was little of the Hollywood b.s. that we all find in movies nowadays. The movie portrayed the import scene quite well and realistically. The only time I cringed was when I had to watch the 1995 Mitsubishi Eclipse get blown up and the 1969 Dodge Charger flip over. There was a real plot and it kept up consistently throughout the whole movie, which I really liked. All in all, this movie gets 5+ stars from me. The only possible downer about the movie is now, real racers will see a huge influx of poser kids trying to be cool and &quot;race.&quot; Other than that, this is a kickass movie!
2013-12-18	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This was an excellent movie. It has action, high speed racing and an excellent dialogue. To me, the money that I spent on it was really worth it.
2003-12-31	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	i saw it today, and i totally fell in love with it! it's full of action. just...amazing. u need to watch it for yaself therefore i'm not goin to tell u anything in the movie.
2002-01-10	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	i am a 34 yr old woman and i just love the show fast and furious,it was interesting and i loved the cars and dominic he made the whole show with his bad boy image.the races was really good. i would suggest this movie to anyone. you wont be disappointed.
2002-02-23	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	If your into little cc'd foreign cars trying to be real drag racing machines, then this movie is for you.  If your into big cubed American iron gear-head driven machines, you will most likely be disappointed.  These boys know about chips, NOS and low profile tires but don't have a clue about hardware that resides inside engines.  Dom even talks about being &quot;scared&quot; to drive the only muscle car in the movie.  What's that tell 'ya?  As far as there being lots of &quot;babes&quot; in the movie as the movie jacket would lead you to believe, there are not all that many.  Pretty yes but not the hordes implied.  As to the drag race scenes, where else but in this movie will you ever see 4 cars race side by side?  Give me a break!  Now after saying all that, it was pretty much worth sitting through it all just to see the Charger make it's run.  A big block with no doubt, probably not a hemi but at least a 383 worked-up.  The wheelie Dom pulled was the best I can remember seeing in a movie for a long long time.  Dom actually turned out to be a guy you would like to know for real.  Will I keep the movie?  Yes.  Now if they would only make a sequel with more than one real car.  We can only wait and see.
2001-06-01	5.0	2	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Everybody must go see this movie. The plot may not be all that but the action scenes are what make the movie. Forget the storyline a concentrate on the women and cars cuz there's a lot of them. Keep the racing scene up to all ya racers. The pigs can't hold us down.
2013-03-24	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is as great as the other fast and the furious movies. Would recommend to others to get and watch.
2006-12-21	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Everything in this movie is looking good. The men and the cars. This action packed movie will keep you entertained. If you haven't seen this movie by now you don't know what you are missing.
2004-05-20	4.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is Better then number 2 by far!This actually concentrate about streeting racing then in part 2.They were actually true street racers in this film i mean how cool is that.This is explore the culture of street racing is all about how people come together and race.Cars were really nice and sweat and i mean SWEAT!Shows you how young teen people or young adults blow there money on there cars then on other stuff to make them stand out or faster then others.The plot was really focusing on the main character Paul And Vin alot to show you who they really are and the others characters as well.Some of the movie had a bit amount of mistakes buts all good but this is one movie its all about how race your car not stand next to it.
2002-01-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I walked into the theater not knowing exactly what to expect from this movie.  The action packed commercials had lured me into the film but not knowing much about cars, I wasn't too sure if I would understand everything.  This movie was everything its title promised to be, right from the beginning. The plot is simple-Brian Earl Spilner (I've seen this movie 8 times, I know by now), is an undercover cop who is assigned to learn more about Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) and his "team" of late night street racers. The goal is to find out if it was Dom's team or one of the other local racer packs who has been terrorizing California truckers, stealing their shipments. However, Spilner soon becomes part of the team and falls for Dom's sister. The movie continues as he tries to crack the case under the pressure of the FBI, police and suspicions of some of the racers.I am by no means a car afficianado now, but I can tell you that after seeing this movie I learned a LOT about cars.  I can't wait to find out about local underground car races and get involved.  Its easy for any viewer to recognize that the cars in this film are top quality and being an Eclipse lover, I was personally thrilled.  You can't possibly help get pumped up by the incredible racing scenes. Of course you can't discuss this movie without mentioning Gone in 60 Seconds, but this movie goes above and beyond that film in every aspect.  And girls, don't be weary, I know I thought it would be a total guy flick, but once you catch a peek at Vin Diesel and Paul Walker you'll be thankful to see this movie.
2002-12-25	3.0	1	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Hollywood produces movies that are dumb, and it also produces movies that are so outrageously silly that you can't help but like them, if only for a guilty pleasure.  &quot;The Fast and the Furious,&quot; the quintissential guy's flick, falls into the latter category.  In this meat-and-potatoes action film, the plot is inconsequential; the acting is wooden, and the stiff dialogue leaves no stone unturned in the cliche department.  Yet, the film is watchable mainly due to the amped-up racing scenes and the onscreen charisma of Vin Diesel, who easily eclipses the blank Paul Walker (who, strangely enough, gets top billing in this film).  To be sure, the beefed-up baldy Diesel is no actor by any stretch of the imagination, but his MetRx-enhanced frame and smoky barritone command virtually every scene he's in.  (This will work for a movie as vapid as this, but if he's not careful, he'll go the way of Jean Claude Van Damme if he doesn't prove himself as an actor.) But this isn't a film for everyone.  If you approach &quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; on an intellectual level, then you'll think it's the worst movie ever made.  But if you can put your brain in &quot;park&quot; (the way most 14/15-year-olds seem to do when then watch films like this) and appreciate a great dumb movie, then this playfully trashy flick will pass your time nicely.
2002-08-15	4.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I never thought that this movie would be this good.  I must confess that I rented it strickly based on the previews of the awesome Dodge Charger that was in the previews.  As the movie pulled me in I was pleasantly surprised that it was actually a good move.  Kind of a cross between American Grafitti, Top Gun and the Shriley Muldowny story, lol.This is a fascinating, action packed, racing movie about the generation of street racers that are around today.  Similar do the older generations drag strips to a point.  Intertwined with the street racing was an undercover, good cop helping the "good" bad buy type of script.  The "betrayal" of the good girl ect.Overall, a very good movie with fast cars, girls and guns.  More of a guy movie overall but could be enjoyed by guys and gals.Very good flick, give it a look!
2014-01-03	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is yet another one of my purchases of the movie series that I love. I gave this a 5 star rating because I love the actors and actresses in this movie and I plan on owning all the movies made of this group! Awesome service on receiving the movie and the movie was in Excellent shape!
2014-01-29	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This was a great movie.  I loved the action and the suspense.  It held all of our interest and kept us interested!
2001-05-24	3.0	3	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Just saw an advance screening of The Fast and the Furious. Vin Diesel could fast become our new action hero. Who could be cooler than this guy? His voice alone is a shock wave. The movie is somewhat predictable, but the racing and stunts make the movie worth it. Some of the car scenes gave my buddy motion sickness(we were 4th row center), no kidding, so you know you are in for a joy ride. Stay till after the credits, when you get sort of an epilogue; and you know the Dom will return. I can't wait.
2001-12-24	5.0	5	10	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	this is a cool racing movie. the plot wasn't that good but it was covered up by the action sequences . the acting was good.this is a really good summer film for those of you who love racing movies.(Ages from 12 and above)
2002-08-27	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Shoot! NAS! Dom (Vin Diesel) is the only cool person in this movie. You can forget about the undercover cop who's trying to find the street racers who steal expensive video equipment. He definitely needs a shower. Even Dom's sister (Jordana Brewster) said he needed one. Smelly fool. The races are good and Dom beats up a guy at Race Wars. Pretty funny stuff. Michelle Rodriguez beats up some guys for no reason. Almost a lordess. Remember, it DON'T matter if you win by an inch or a mile, winnin's winning.
2002-02-18	1.0	3	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie was boring. The plot was ridiculous. It would have been much more interesting if they'd decided to go with a little bit of intrigue rather than just plowing through with the bad guy they'd been hinting at the whole movie. In the end the action is tedious. Go rent Bullit.
2001-07-30	3.0	18	34	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The fast and the furious was really a good movie, but I couldnt shake the feeling like I've been here before.  Point Break anyone?  The movie was completely based on Point Break, only with cars instead of surfing.  Included were an undercover cop who falls in with the guys he thinks are innocent but who turn out to be the guys who are robbing semis (you know, instead of banks) then he falls in love with the one girl that he shouldnt all the while the feds order an assult on the guys he thinks are the ones who are the real crooks but they arn't.  But I wont lie.  TFATF was a really entertaining movie.  I wouldn't quite say it was better than Gone in 60 Seconds, but it was good none the less and I would recomend it to any Gran Tourismo fan or any true action movie fan.  I also plan on buying the DVD when it's released.  But beware....If you have seen Point Break, you've seen TFATF. Don't say I didn't warn you......
2013-06-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	huge fan of dom and letty.  had to see what started it all again before we went to # 6.  which was really good too.
2002-02-03	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The Fast and The Furious is a hot, action (car racing) film which combines fast street car racing and hot women. The plot I did not quite understand and wasn't that clearly developed. Brian, an undercover cop in L.A. races as one of the street racers t and tries to see if the gang of racers have stolen car engines and other car supplies from hijacked trucks. The racing is hot, the women are hot, the acting not terribly great but ok. This is mainly a movie for teens and young adults, I don't think many older folks would like this flick.
2001-07-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	It's all about the cars and who can &quot;one-up&quot; the next person.  While I came into this movie not really knowing what to expect, the clear cut lines of the gang-type car affiliations and an underlying bad-guy versus good-guy base theme made this movie more than just another &quot;hot car&quot; movie.  Don't get me wrong, the cars, babes and money were all there too, but I was most impressed with how everything was brought together in a whirlwind of constant action and plot advancement.  Excellent movie!
2002-01-09	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The movie was full of high speed action, the plot was so-so and the acting was horrendous. Probably a product of targeting only the cool, sexy young actors.Nevertheless, this movie introduced us to the growing popularity of the street racing scene and was very shallowy entertaining (3 stars).
2002-07-24	1.0	8	15	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	What the hell is going on? People actually think this is a great movie? Why go to all that trouble to steal a bunch of DVD players? Hey Vin, I know you're not the smartest but here's a tip - deal drugs, there's more money in it. An utterly shallow and ridiculous movie that is based entirely on Vin Diesel being attractive to the opposite sex. And maybe gay guys too but I haven't asked. Not that he is required to 'act' at all. That would get in the way of him looking moody and mumbling a lot.
2011-02-17	5.0	4	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	As the title states, this movie changed a generation. I saw it on the big screen when i was in 7th grade and trust me so did everyone else that year. By the end of the year we all knew one fact: we wanted a Supra, an RX-7, an Eclipse or anything we could at least pass off as being worthy. Blame this film for all the Cavaliers, Sunfires and other cars with horrible paint jobs and spoilers that are too big to serve any practical purpose.The acting is comical at times, but maybe thats just my friends and I. After seeing the movie too many times its still good. This movie is responsible for my ownership of a Mazda RX-8. My brother bought an RX-7 shortly after we saw the film.All in all, the movie is awesome. The special effects are awesome and the races are entertaining. When Dom (Vin Diesel) lauches from the line, the camera takes the viewer through the internal workings of a Mazda Wankel Rotary Engine; a testament to the special effects team.This movie is fast and full of action, just dont count how many times they shift...
2001-06-16	5.0	1	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	We went to a sneak preview of this movie and I can tell you that, if you love cars, you need to be there on opening day.  This movie is awesome!  It has super-slick tuner cars, hot dudes and cool chicks.  A must-see for those involved in the sport compact scene and car lovers in general.
2001-11-06	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I will tell you what, I went to an auction and bought a 95 dodge stealth with the rx7 twin turbo motor in it and it was already all decked out, then I made the mistake, I went the the fast and the furiouse, by far one of the best movies I have ever seen, the plot is awesome, The sister is well, Hot, and the cars leave nothing to be desired, with this combination this could have had horrible acting and still been good.  If you like fast cars and good action this is a definate must buy.  Needless to say that on the way home I lost my license for 60 days and got a good lecture...
2010-01-03	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Dominic Toretto drives the streets of LA like he owns them. As far as his crew is concerned, he does. He spends his days rebuilding high performance race cars and perfecting the art of computer controlled fuel injection. By night, Dom pockets up to $10,000 each time someone dares to race him in his own earth-bound rocket of a car. Paul Walker and Vin Diesel were hot in this movie and they made the perfect on-screen duo. It's awesome.
2002-08-03	5.0	3	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie makes me want to get an import and make it fast
2013-03-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	you might want to get this movie before Fast and Furious 6 comes out. It made more sense once I saw the earlier movies and had some back story. I get most all my movies used on Amazon and have yet to be disappointed with quality. I got a low quality pirated movie on ebay once, I never went back to ebay again.
2001-06-23	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	&quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; had you on the edge of your seat.  There was adreanaline pumping through my veins, and I wanted to go race my car later.  People were be racing cars in the theater parking lot, revving their engines, and peeling out after seeing this movie.  It was a pure shot of adrenaline, and a must-see for everyone.
2013-03-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I love muscle cars. When I first watched this movie I said: this is the best car racing movie ever. And so I had to get it. I have seen all five Fast and Furious and this one is by far the best. Vin Diesel and Paul Walker are at their best. The stunts are just awesome. &#34;Please don't try this at home&#34;. One of Vin Diesel's greatest movies. Hold on to your seat belts 'cause is going to get fast.
2006-05-14	5.0	3	11	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I don't think I have ever read so much bitching in my life. If you want to give out about the film go find a forum to piss other people off with ok? And stick to the point at hand, reviewing the film. I dont care if ye deficate on graves of those who died in street races, or glue ironing boards and coffee cans to your cars in an attempt to try and be funny. You're not. And you sound completely RETARDED. Oh, and nobody gets any critical value from your stupid opinions ok? IF YOU HATED IT THAT MUCH WHY DID YOU EVEN BOTHER WASTING YOUR TIME WRITING ABOUT IT???? Leave the reviews for people (like me) that actually enjoyed the film and want to tell others about it, and dont ruin it for everyone cos you missed the plot of the film.If you cared to take any notice it takes a look at the world of street racing, which is already popular all over the world and didnt happen as a result of this film. Also, it does not make truck hijacking or violence cool.... tell me who is going to jack a truck or beat up thier friend... or wait...have a hundred grand in their ass pocket to buy a skyline and do it up just coz they saw this film?It's a bit of fun and a look at racing in California, with a detective plot. The charcters are likable, there's a good mix of music and excellently done stunts in the hottest racing cars....where's the problem? It's hardly meant to be serious.
2002-01-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This Is so far the best Vin Diesel movie i have ever seen. I love Vin Diesel's charactor Domanique, Dom. It is the best.
2001-10-24	1.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This Movie Represent everything wrong with modern day america. It caters to the MTV teenybopper generation who love everything that has commercial appeal. Everyone is fawning over Vin Diesel. Quick note kiddies : This guy makes Pauly Shore look like an Oscar calibre actor. And the plot, u ask? Well there really is none. Hoochies dance around like Rona Berret on speed anidiots risk their lives for the pursuit of racing in their &quot;sooped up&quot; Rice Rockets. So if u love britney, ,MTV, and all that caters to our misguided youth, You will probably love this crap.
2001-08-01	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie rocked. If you like Action and really hot guys, then you have to see this movie. I have already seen it four times, I loved it. Brian(Paul Walker) is a rookie cop that is sent to investigate some truck hijackings. He joins the team of Domonic(Vin Diesel) and falls in love with Domonics sister ( Jordana Brewster). He must face one of the hardest diecesions fo his life. He must choose between his new family or his career. Please, go and see this  movie.
2010-03-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This movie is top notch, love it, if there were more stars, I would have rated it to the max. The actors/actresses were all excellent. It holds your attentions through out the whole movie. It makes you feel you are there with them, you're just drawn in by the magnificent cars and the people themsevles. Someone taped the movie for me, I watched it so many times, I wore the CD out, so I bought the movie from Amazon and I'm still watching it. Excellent movie.
2002-08-02	2.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The movie was good and the cars were [bad]. Wait, I got that backward. The movie was bad and the cars were sweet. The acting is aweful. Seriously, the only reason why I bought it is for the cars. I even ripped it to vcd and deleted all the "acting" I parts so all I had was the racing. It makes a great movie.
2001-07-19	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Illagal street racing rules. This is a story about our lives. This movie kicks.... It gives you an intense rush you can not handle. If you are into street racing, GO SEE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!! Keep on racing, c u at &quot;de maasvlakte&quot;
2001-11-02	5.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	This is one of the most exciting movies of the year.  I truly enjoyed the action and the speed was superb.  I would invite everyone to see this movie it is worth the money.
2002-01-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	a high octane master piece a must for any modified car lover
2003-07-08	2.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Unfortunately, the idea of cool and being part of the in crowd is a big part of today's youth, and even more disappointingly, Hollywood.  Case in point... `The Fast And The Furious' starring Vin Diesel and Paul Walker.  Take for example my 14-year old sister.  She knows absolutely nothing about cars, whether it be parts of the engine or drag racing.  She knows none of the names of the actors in the movie.  Believe me, I've asked her.  She just thinks it's THE cool movie to watch because her friends told her it was THE cool movie to watch.  And that's exactly what America's youth wants: just to be part of something that's seen as fashionably adequate.  So in that respect, `The Fast And The Furious' is an excellent movie.  It's just too bad--no--it's inappropriate, that this movie takes such advantage of our youth's gullibility.The two main characters in the movie are Brian (Walker) and Dom (Diesel).  Along with their supposed sexiness comes fast cars, fast women, and all the action you could ever want.  But what's not included in the package is a decent plot or even good acting.  But who needs those things anymore, right?  All we need now is some hot ass and a few awesomely designed, super fast cars.  The scenario is basically that Brian, an undercover cop, is to find out if Dom and his gang of punks and hot women are part of an ongoing problem involving trucks being robbed of their drag-racing car parts.  But like they do to so many kids, the bright lights and craziness of the streets sway Brian into thinking: `hey... this ain't so bad'.  Even with the storyline being weak, it does manage to promote lawbreaking and, though not directly, label it okay to the point of (once again)- cool.  It's not like in `Gone In 60 Seconds' where a helpless brother was to be saved; justifying their wrongdoings.  Here they're just stealing car parts to use in illegal street races (that are again glorified beyond belief).  Together Vin Diesel and Paul Walker are satisfactory when it comes to acting.  But apart their true talents show.  Just look at their respective, separate movies.  `XXX', a good film with a similar scheme, is much, much better than this.  And even movies like `Pitch Black' and `Knockaround Guys' portray Diesel in a manner more fitting of his genius.  Paul Walker's only other (somewhat) popular movie was `Joy Ride'.  Don't even waste your time with that one.  You can tell I am a fan of Vin Diesel--he was my reason for watching this movie in the first place--and, along with a few choice car crashes, he was probably the only brilliancy I noticed.  Why they decided to omit him from `2 Fast 2 Furious', the sequel I'm NOT going to see, is beyond me.  Come to think of it, it was probably Vin's decision to keep his name off something so silly.  Congrats, Vin, you made a wise choice.This movie seems to become more and more popular as more and more people see it.  Kudos to the directors for hitting the jackpot; shame on them for rigging it so the 13- and 14-year olds who watched it had no choice but to tell their friends it was `awesome!'.  I could've easily given this movie 1 star and still feel good about it.  Instead I gave `The Fast And The Furious' 2 stars for the aforementioned two reasons.  Other than those "bright spots" the movie was unmemorable, unimaginative, and arguably one of the most misleading films of recent times.  Even if you love Vin Diesel you might be disappointed with it.  He does a good job, but he just doesn't seem to fit in with the gangster wannabes and poor actors.  Really, only his name seems appropriate (Diesel... cars... get it?).  And if you don't care much for fast cars and their flashy colors, what the heck are you doing here?  Steer clear of this one, at all costs.
2003-03-20	1.0	3	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Wow, what a corny, insipid, annoying piece of junk! This flashy, gaunt and desolate mess of a movie has captured the attention of preteens all across the country. They like the fast pretty cars and the bright lights and the &quot;hott bods&quot;. Those children fail to recognize the bleak material that's shoved in their face. The cheezy dialogue, the paper mache acting, the middleschool direction, the ungodly actors (ugh Vin), the contaminated &quot;plot&quot; that's been recycled over and over and over again. There's nothing fresh or refreshing here.No doubt all the little Vin Deisel-groupies are gonna scorn this review. Hey, I'm just speaking truth here. Look facts in the face; if you actually enjoy this testosterone-fueled garbage, you're clearly void of any intelligence and common sense.
2002-08-07	3.0	2	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	When the sun goes down, the wheels come out (like vampires in the night) to race the deserted streets of LA. They race for money. They race for "papers." They race for respect. And they race to escape. It's urban chaos with babes; babes who can also race.Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker of Joy Ride, Varsity Blues) is an LA cop working undercover to find the hijackers who have been stealing from semi trucks as they're en route at highway speed. He befriends Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel of Saving Private Ryan, XXX), the intimidating, yet charismatic, tough-guy leader of the local race scene. Brian must prove himself as a racer and earn the trust of Dom and his race team in order to find out who the thieves are and stop them. Naturally, he also falls for Dom's sister, Mia (Jordana Brewster). And, of course, there's a rival Asian gang to shake things up even more.Paul Walker puts in a believable performance, however, it's all about Vin Diesel. He has such a captivating presence on screen. Hooking up with Director Rob Cohen (Dragonheart, Daylight, XXX) has really been a blessing for him.The cinematography here is just outstanding. The camera seemingly gets into the car, into the mechanics of the power and the acceleration. The filming/lighting has also created an LA that is appropriately surreal.The entire movie is one constant adrenaline rush - totally exhilarating. The race scenes involve some amazing action along the streets of LA. If for no other reason, you must see this film for A) Vin Diesel, and B) it's just a great action film.
2002-01-29	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	A fast paced, non-stop action thrill ride from start to finish!! I loved the story, it's such a great concept for a movie i think.  The acting was pretty good, though who's paying any attention to the stars; the cars are what got my attention.  Vin's da man!!  I can't wait till the sequel!!  YEP!!  *wink*(out of five stars)sound - ****story - *****acting - ***-i recommend this movie
2002-06-18	2.0	1	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	The dialogue is horrible, the acting is poor, and the technical flaws are amazing.  The most irritating thing about this movie is it tries to elevate some of the slowest cars on the roads today to not only sportscars, but supercars.  The Honda Civic?  Please.  I love the old Charger, but 900hp?  And it still can't beat the Civic?!  The movie also features floorboards that fly off when the engine is under stress, engines that heal themselves after blowing, and special effects that make 140mph look like the sound barier.  The movie is not without its perks, though, as it was entertaining.  Good looking women are the best feature of the movie, which is ironic because more women will enjoy this movie than car-knowledgable dudes.
2002-01-29	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	At first I was a bit hesitant to watch this movie. I tought it would be the exactly like GONE IN 60 SECONDS. Well, I was wrong. Yes, THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS does revolve around fast cars and racing but there's also plot. The basic storyline is: Brian (played by Paul Walker) is a race car driver (with a secret) and he gets involved with the wrong people. He ends up becoming really good friends with one of the &quot;race car guys&quot; while getting involved with his sister. Anyway a lot is revealed as the movie progresses. THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS is an action packed adrenalin rush. The way they filmed the races were awesome. The acting was well done. The underlining story shows a man caught in middle... choosing what he thinks is right. THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS is worth the ride.
2001-06-23	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Damn good movie.  You will want to see it again and again.  I am not a stickler for &quot;car&quot; movies but this one took me by surprise.  An excellent movie with alot of action and some great effects and stunts
2002-02-23	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	i think that the fast and the furoious was the best movie i love paul walker and jarule so much i think they have the tightest cars an the coolest stunts plus the hottes guys ... i definatly recomd this movie to ppl of about 11-29! girls an guys!
2002-01-14	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Vin Diesel stars in Director Rob Cohen's latest film &quot;The Fast and the Furious&quot; inspired by the article 'Racer X' this high speed-hold on to your Nitrous Oxide Tank-Action flick is not for the faint of heart. The film is set in the streets of LA where multinational groups of muscle car lovers are joined in a series of highly modified car races and meanwhile trying to avoid running into the law which suspects a group in the street racing community is responsible for several crime sprees involving hijacking of trucks carrying imported merchandise.This movie is guaranteed to have you gripping on the edge of your seat.
2007-10-09	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	the picture quality is excellent really liked the movie in hd it was a different experience plus it was delivered on time great job amazon
2001-10-09	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	Ok so what if the plot aint all there all u really need is Vin Diesel. The film is not complete without him there would b no man that looks like he will either beat the crap out of u or read u poetry.After sorting out whos who u get 2 the real action and theres the plot.The film is all round one of my faves now. After dragging 2 ppl with me 2 the theater they really enjoyed it. After the film i pre ordered my copy alredy.Cannot wait till the next one. I will be in the front row.
2005-08-18	1.0	2	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	You know something I notice with movies directed by Rob Cohen that have Vin Diesel in them? NONE of them have real plots in them; they are all more of crowd pleasers. This is no exception. If you like visuals, you will love this movie. But if you are looking for some actual good action movies, I suggest you look elsewhere (lots of recommended titles that I'd rather not list). Really, I found it hard to just keep on watching this because there's nothing that made me think "Wow!" when I was amazed, except that so many people actually wanted to see this. Although I don't necessarily recommend it either, XXX also is quite lame and is more about seeing the explosion than an actual coherent story. I don't think I'd want to shell out money for this.On the good side, "Sin City" just came out a couple days ago.
2013-07-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	I brought this movie to replace my VHS. I want this in DVD. The prices is right and it arrive on time. I love it
2001-12-04	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious	...and I don't even have a license!This is pretty good movie. Predictable to an extent, but good.The action scenes are phenomenal. It is your typical guy flick, I will have to admit. Fast cars and hot chicks.Plot: rookie undercover cop trying to bust midnight racers, Racers are trying to make a car that can go a quarter mile in 10 seconds.Not quite gone in 60 seconds caliber but close. ;)
2007-02-21	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Of all the HD-DVD titles that I've got, personally, this title is by far the best looking one. Colors are rich and everything else just perfect (well, other than the plot). If you want to get a demo disc to show off your HD TV and sound system, look no futher - get this. Not impressed with all the overly hyped HD-features like GPS map and U-Control - but tons of standard def materials ported over from the standard DVD release for those who fancy behind-the-scenes stuff. In a nutshell, Tokyo Drift is all looks and no-brains-required-movie. I've given it a 5 stars rating strictly based on it's excellent picture and sound quality and not it's characters or plot which I personally find weak.Basically, kid behaving badly, got thrown by single mom to live with his dad in Tokyo. At school, got to know some friends who races. Beautiful girls, hot cars, Yakuza (mobs) and racing in the streets of Tokyo. Car crashed, mentor died, challenge the bad guy, won the girl over. You want good and compelling storyline, try The Departed instead.
2013-06-14	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Watched this AFTER watching FF6.  Liked the tie in.  But would have liked to have seen a lot more of racing and the whole Tokyo &#34;scene&#34; around drift racing.
2006-07-02	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Well, Again in my department!!!Let me tell you good folks one thing....Forget the Special Effects ... This is all Racing....If you go and see this , its bound to be the best of the series!Killer plots,  Great storyline... And best of all the CARS !!!Not only all that you run across  a familiar face in one of the old movies.... >:DThe good people who made this movie shows that thats why we keep going on... and there is going to be another...Just go and see it for yourself and youll see whyI will just tell you one thing.....I would pay to see this movie again !!!>:D
2012-06-21	1.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I didnt expect much and it was not. Was really surprized where these supposedly teens find money for custom made cars but realism was limited to Tokyo streets which looks fantastic on any night. The movie itself dont make sense--yes, cars moving fast, yes, chicks are hot but we never see anything appropriate for ages over 13. And all those underground criminal activities kinda strange and pieces dont stick together. Avoid.
2014-05-21	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	A very good movie it's funny and has good racing scenes overall a good movie this review takes too much tim
2013-06-02	1.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I decided to watch some of the f&f movies wondering what I missed. Apparently nothing. What a boring movie_-not even good Tokyo shots.
2013-04-22	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Fast and Furious action that can always be counted on with this series. Looking forward to seeing Fast and Furious 6.
2006-10-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie was Great!  The Drifting was GREAT.  I like this over the 2 fast 2 furious but i would say fast and the furious 3 and the fast and the furious was a good movie I would buy them both again..A+++++++
2012-11-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Very action pack with a little drama. It showed how two different people settled their argument other than fighting. The cars where fantastic along with the women. I recommend this movie to everybody who enjoys cars.
2013-03-12	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	If you like car races, this has the action you are looking for. It also has a little drama as well.
2013-06-25	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Great movie it was the kind of show I like to watch multiple times. Worth the money. I loved it.
2009-01-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Han was so HOT, that I can't take my eyes out of him! It was sad that HAn died.
2012-07-01	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I loved the car scenes (I mean, who doesn't, it's what the series is about!) & I am personally a huge fan of drifting. This movie could have been a lot better as far as the actor's. It felt very forced & fake to me...  All in all a good movie though. The drama is good =D And Han :( Well I wont spoil it for those going to watch it but I really liked him in this.
2013-08-09	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love the first F&F movie.  I didn't see this when it came out as I thought the trailer looked pretty bad.  Over the years I have had several people rave about how great this movie was, telling me how I had to see it because of its awesomeness.  So, I finally rented it and I thought it was pretty bad.  The main character is a dick and the whole movie I was just thinking that he should treat his folks better and stop being such a punk douche.  Then after they set him up for being a douche they try to make you care for him... No, he is douche, I will not care for a douche.  Seeing that the only honorable characters in this movie were his folks, I was not emotionally invested at all.  Some of the cars were super cool to look at, and some of the drifting was good, but a lot of the drifting was also poor looking special effects...  I recommend just revisiting the first movie, don't bother with this.  This movie is on par with F&F 2 which is also a terrible movie.
2013-12-02	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love all the fast and the furious movie it's good movie and at the end of the movie you see van at the end of the movie.
2012-12-22	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Amazing movie. I've seen it at least 30 times. I still enjoy it every time. It is the best one in my opinion.
2013-07-08	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love this franchise and this is the first with director Justin Lin, who directed Toyko Drift, Fast and Furious, Fast Five, and Furious Six.  Love the characters and the cars.
2006-06-17	5.0	5	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I haven't seen the other fast and furious movies but this one made me interested about the other two. I thought it had a great start, very entertaining, and a pretty good end. The middle was a little slow. But overall a great movie.
2013-05-21	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love this movie. People need to realize that this is after all of the crazy that happened in the first two movies and the last 3 movies.
2006-07-13	5.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie was SICK!!And that DANNY BOOKO kid is a total PIMP!Sure it's a third of a movie trilogy, but without any original cast this movie holds it's own.Plus - That Danny Booko kids is a PIMP!!!See it.
2013-12-18	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Great movie. Lots of action. A lot of funny 1 liners and a lot of great race scenes.  Really pleased with my purchase and the time I took to watch the movie. Not disappointed at all.
2007-12-17	2.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Not worth the purchase. I dont think the acting is that good and it comes out on cable tv once a week!
2013-05-28	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Tokyo Drift, for me, was completely pointless. Yes, the movie was okay. Yes, the cars were fast. Yes, the women were scantily clad. But the characters were different and I don't understand where this fits on the timeline. Having seen all six movies (#6 just came out this past weekend), I'm really upset with the timeline. Everything is all messed up and Tokyo Drift is at the heart of this disaster. I never really liked the movie anyways, and I ended up not watching #4 or #5 until just before going to the theater to see #6 because Tokyo Drift really annoyed me.
2014-02-10	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Love the Fast & Furious movies....mostly because I love me some Paul Walker and Vin Diesel, but this is by far the best one yet.
2014-02-18	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Best movie ever. I love drifting.I love the beginning scene when they race the Chevelle with the Viper. Good movie for drift lovers
2006-12-10	5.0	2	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Finally, somebody decides to take filmmaking to the next level. The X-level, yo, as in Xtreme! And it's multicultural, so that scores it boocoo points. You get to learn about our sister country, Japan. It sure seems hectic, but hey it's hectic anyway when you got a dad who's so mean and your mom ships you off because you like putting the petal to the medal. Step aside, "Rebel Without A Cause" ... "Tokyo Drift" is coming through and there's definitely not a cause in sight. I can't believe those turns, dog. This joint is worth the 5 stars just for that rubber-scrubbing factor alone.
2009-08-19	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Unlike the last 3 paul walker film this one focused more on what was important and that was racing. The others always had to be about undercover cops and criminals and how to stop a ruthless bad guy (part 2 and 4 face it 4 was a recycled story). This movie if anything is stand alone and took ideas of another film called initial D which was also good and freed its self of becoming generic. The acting here yeah it was average but it was not horrible like some claim (Mainly walker and Vin loyal fanatics)and the story was better cause it dumped the already old undercover underground drug trafficking story. If they go ahead with a 5th my advise is go back to tokyo and start with the characters of 4 meeting up with tokyo drift crew and make it into a racing rivalry and not undercover cop work.
2013-08-06	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	When I first saw it I honestly thought the main character was cast in an attempt to not overshadow Little Bow Wow's filler character. The racing was cool, but almost none of the characters were very compelling. To me, it seemed like everyone was trying too hard to be something they weren't: Adults playing American teens, Little Bow Wow's character trying to seem relevant, contrived parental conflict, American kid in a Japanese high school and taking over the drift scene (really?). I'm not at all interested in seeing any of the new characters in future "Fast" films.I say it's a solid 2.5. If I had been watching it on TV instead of at a theater I don't know that I would have sat through it. I don't see how anyone who has seen any of the other "Fast" films can rate this higher than a 3.
2007-12-03	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	if you like hot import cars and drifting then you will like this movie as i do.
2013-09-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This will be given as present for Christmas so has not as yet been reviewed but I am sure my granddaughter will love it.
2008-03-01	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift is a pretty decent action flick.  It's about a teenager (who looks like he's about 30) who constantly gets in trouble for racing cars against other people.  So his mother ships him off to Japan and to be with his father, who was in the Navy and doesn't take any nonsense from his son.However, his son must not be too bright, seeing as how the father has to explain to the boy time and time again he won't put up with his car racing hobby (and when the father eventually found out anyway but the son tried to explain why he was racing didn't make much sense to me) and yet, he continues to race anyway.Throughout the movie, the teenager has to deal with a tough Japanese gang who not only races cars, but doesn't tolerate a lot of garbage from people.  This of course leads to some fighting scenes later on.The actual car races are fun to watch, and there's a lot of storyline focus on the races themselves, which makes this movie an action-packed quality adventure.  I like it, and I'm sure most people who like action and car racing will feel the same.
2006-06-22	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Chances are if you liked "The Fast and the Furious" and "2 Fast 2 Furious" you won't be dissapointed with "Tokyo Drift". It's baisically the same formula: fast cars, hot women, minimal dialouge, and almost no plot. If you're looking for an entertaining action movie, look no further. This is one of the best action movies this summer.
2013-06-24	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is my favorite movie.  It is not like I dislike the other movies but I really enjoyed that character Han.  His mentality and philosophy of life makes him such an enigma.
2009-03-21	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Not the best of the series but different. Its an okay movie, its appeal is directed to only some audiences, hence children and car enthusiasts.
2006-10-16	1.0	4	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I mean, nothing made sense in this movie and it literally made my head spin. Nothing but fast cars, severly underweight h00chies, and plenty of rock/hip&hop music. It was like watching an extremely long music video. Sean is supposed to be in high school, but as old as he looked I guess he was on the 10 year plan. On top of that, he talked like Forrest Gump. In order not to go to jail, Sean moves to Japan to live with his dad. Sean was able to find himself a crew real quick. And if he and his friends were suppposedly in high school, how come they had so much time to race, fix cars, and go to parties? Shouldn't they have been studying for entrance crams? If it wasn't for Bow Wow and Vin Diesel (small part at the end), I never would've watched this waste of a film.
2014-02-07	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love my collection of F&F dvd's and every time i see a dvd that came after Tokyo Drift, I have to go back to this dvd, to try to fill in the holes to se if it still works..Try to piece it together chronologically! But otherwise, i love it still
2012-05-22	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	this was a great addition to the series.  I'm glad i bought it. good shots of tokyo.  i had trouble trying to decide if this was number 3 or 4 tho
2014-01-15	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I bought this as an anniversary present to my hubby to finally complete our collection of the fast and furious movies. Great!!
2007-01-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Great action.  Watch this when I workout... Love the cars, they need to make more of these titles.
2013-05-08	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Excellent Movie.  Can't wait for the next installment on Memorial Day this year!  Love the series though 2 and 3 weren't the best.
2014-01-17	1.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Bad cast(especially the lead boy), bad story, bad setting. Drifting? Really? Drifting is not racing, it's exhibitionism. Waste of my $$$.Avoid this sad movie and feel good you didn't waste a few dollars on it.
2013-06-01	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is a good time, hot car, hot chix, movie. It's not high art, just great fun. I recommend it.
2007-03-03	1.0	1	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I was looking for decent drift action, and after watching it, I'm disappointed.Story line is mediocre, but this is ok, I wasn't expecting anything.All the driving actions in this movie are also mediocre, and this disappointed me.  "drift" and "tail-slide" mean different things, to some people.  This movie does not seem to differenciate.If you are looking for real "drifting" actions, try "Initial D".
2013-12-10	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I did not like this one was much.  With it not having the regular people in the movie I reallt did not care for it.
2012-12-08	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Loved this movie.  Brought this for my son when it first came out we watched it over and over again.Have since lost the movie after relocating and now its hard to find.  Except of course on Amazon, and to be able to watch it instantly wow!!
2013-12-13	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	If you're a Fast & Furious fan, this needs to be apart of your movie collection. So sad to not have Paul Walker as part of the family any more should the adventure continue after Fast 7.
2008-01-20	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	i bought this for a christmas present and the one who received it wants to watch it on a regular basis.  this is her favorite of the three. i'd recommend it to others for sure!
2013-10-06	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This third movie, "The Fast and the Furious:Tokyo Drift," is my favorite movie so far in this franchise. I liked the originalThe Fast and the Furiousand also2 Fast 2 Furious. I wasn't expecting to like "Tokyo Drift" as much as I did.I liked the casting, especially Lucas Black. The music was dynamite. And I had never seen drifting before. It was like cars dancing on screen. Hokey, I know but that's what it made me think of. And I loved the Tokyo locales.Fast, furious and definitely fun!
2014-04-13	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	While most of the Fast and Furious movies are a guilty pleasure of mine, Tokyo Drift leaves me wanting.  I like how they took another form of performance &#34;racing&#34; in the third movie, but I didn't find the movie as exciting or engaging as the first two movies.  While I'm glad they eventually linked it into the rest of the series in later movies, originally the somewhat forced connection at the end made me feel like this didn't even belong in the series.Now at that said, this still a fun movie to watch and has lots of really awesome cars throughout it.  Like the rest of the movies in the series, if you enjoy high performance and tuner vehicles, chances are you will enjoy this movie for what it is.  Just don't expect Oscar winning performances or Gone with the Wind classic drama and you will enjoy yourself.
2014-03-15	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Even though it does not feature the main cast, it is still a great movie to watch! I would recommend it.
2011-06-20	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This chapter in the Fast & Furious series is often considered the least favorite as main stars Paul Walker and Vin Diesel were pretty much absent aside from a last minute cameo.  I have come back to this film a few times for my memories of the very exciting race through the housing development and ended up staying for the balance of the picture.  Taken for what it is, the film is very enjoyable with good cars and action.  My heart still belongs to the old Detroit muscle cars, so I love a few of the other entries in the series, but still found this one enjoyable enough to add to my collection.  Recommended to fans of this genre, regardless of interest in the Vin Diesel F&F films.
2014-04-08	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	i love all of the the f.a.f movies and this one is a pretty good movie personally i like han's car the most
2013-09-08	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Out of all of The Fast and the Furious movies, this one is my favorite; hence, I had to purchase it! With the whole industry of ebooks, instant videos, etc. booming, I figured I should buy this as a digital copy instead, rather than an actual DVD. I like how I have the option to play it from virtually anywhere that plays amazon instant video content. It's very convenient when you're moving from room to room; i.e. watching from a television on a couch, to watching it from a computer on your bed. It makes life very convenient.
2013-07-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	so good i got this in blue raythank you i watch it  all the timeon sundays when cable is boring
2006-10-20	4.0	10	13	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	After buying the original "The Fast and The Furious" I found most of my enjoyment came from making fun of the movie and shaming it.  However, I can now say I am a fan of the trilogy (all 3 films are good).Lucas Black is simply The Man and gives another great performance here.  Bow Wow does a surprisingly good job as well.  Car buffs and street racers will especially like this movie (which I am neither).  This is a fast paced and exciting action packed movie that many will enjoy.
2007-04-24	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Let me first say that, yes, I am a fan of this franchise.  It's not the Godfather franchise.  It's not the Lord of the Rings franchise.  It's a simple, repetitive plot wrapped in a bunch of cool cars.  But seriously, that's what I want to see sometimes.  The dialogue is sketchy.  The action is unrealistic.  The plot is silly.  However all of these things keep you from having to think too much, which is the intent of this series: just watch the flashy colors and enjoy yourself for a little while.
2013-09-08	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love the actors and actresses in the movie. Brian Tee is amazing and hot too!! My favorite of the Fast and Furious movies
2014-01-10	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I do not review movies. Every body has an opinion, there are so many reviews out there, you don&#8217;t need another.
2006-10-31	4.0	9	12	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	It really doesn't matter too much that almost every scene in this film is so far beyond believable, for this is not a movie that's designed to make sense...it's designed to keep the audience in its seats, and in that sense this movie soars.  Like the two films that proceeded it, `The Fast and the Furious - Tokyo Drift' is a high octane rollercoaster ride littered with fast cars and fast women, and for its target audience (teenage boys) it hits every mark just right.  Now I am a huge fan of the first film, and a minor fan of the second.  I had absolutely no expectations for this film (I thought that the previews looked lame, and no one from either of the previous films was making an appearance, well, Vin is in the last 30 seconds but that doesn't count) so when I watched it I was increasingly impressed with how much I was enjoying myself.I'll point out first off that I was much relieved to see that Zachery Ty Bryan was only in the first few minutes of the film and that his character was not explored throughout the film...I can't stand him.  That aside, Lucus Black (Friday Night Lights & Jarhead) does a great job here as Sean.  Lucus is a much better actor than the overrated Paul Walker (sure, he's got great abs but his acting ability is below B-Grade) and actually made his character interesting.  Sung Kang was also very good as Han and Brian Tee was believable in all his irritating bad-boyness as DK.  Bow Wow takes the place of Ludacris and Ja Rule before him as the rapper-guy side kick, and he does an alright job, but he just doesn't really fit here (Luda was by far the best of the three).  Nathalie Kelly plays Neela, the girl Sean is fighting for, and she is amply hot enough to vie for attention.Sure the plot of weak and the relationships are unbelievable, I mean who can honestly say that they feel a kingpin to the Japanese/Chinese/Oriental (whatever it was) Mafia is going to agree to have his nephew and some stranger race to squash their beef?  But, like I said, it doesn't have to make sense, it doesn't have to be believable.  `The Fast and the Furious' franchise have done quite well for themselves giving the growing young boys of the world exactly what they want, sleek fast cars coupled with hot young tail.
2012-11-26	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love this series. It keeps you wanting to know what is going to happen next. I was so surprised when I saw the price. Amazon was the cheapest. I was so excited I could not wait for it to come.
2014-01-28	4.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	So we all know what the movie is about, not one of my favorite from the whole set but it is my boyfriends favorite, came wrapped in plastic and without a scratch.. So far I'm happy with Amazons.shipping, wrapping, and delivery! :)
2007-06-12	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Yes, I loved this movie and it more of true style of racing me and my brother are interest in. Yes, I know... the first one is good cuz of Vin Diesel andf Paul Walker. But this is still the best of all 3 F & F series! The ending is awesome and I knew it, I've read that part a long ago before this movie came out in theatres! I enjoying watch this movie, over over over over and don't get tired of it... mmmm, safe to say I've watch this HD-DVD like 7 times and 3 times in theatres. Anyway, the picture and sound are amazing and wicked awesome!
2013-04-25	3.0	3	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Not as good as the other Fast & Furious movies. I like the regular cast of the other movies better.
2013-06-20	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Sort of a prequel - who cares though. It has fast cars, cool driving, blood-pumping music, hot Asian models, and Vin Diesel makes a purely cameo appearance at the end.If you like Fast and Furious, you will like this one. The behind the scenes extras were kind of neat - who knew there was no such thing as a film permit in Japan?
2009-09-26	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I'm not a fan of of this kind of genre, but it wasn't bought for me. My family absolutely loved it. They love the entire series.
2007-07-23	1.0	4	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Let's face it, this entire movie is a fantasy. It is basically an MTV video about fancy underground car racing or a "Need for Speed" movie version.What did I learn from this movie? well, just because I like to play video-games of this genre, I may not necessarily like watching a movie about it. Don't get me wrong, I have 14-18 year old nephews that love this type of movie due to the cars and of course, the girls. This is why I took them to see it. They of course love it, that is why they have the DVDs and watch it again and again.The story line, young underestimated underground racer makes move on girlfriend of nince's kingpin, kingpin challenge to race, both make a mess on the way, and he ends up deported to Tokyo, where he practically does the same thing. Of course, he meets his "sen say" and ends up becoming kingpin at the end of movie.They are no surprises, you watch this movie because you enjoy watching stunts, girls and cars. It's all about image, and the movie is an entire facade.My issue with this movie is not that it wasn't meant for me, is that it was meant for lets face it, teenagers, and the message that is being set about value and women, etc. is pretty empty, vain, superficial. Particularly since they tend to watch these movies over and over.I don't know, maybe I am getting old. Then again, I loved Batman begins. So, Maybe I just like movies with substance.
2013-06-30	2.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I wish I hadn't wasted my money. This obviously was a bad attempt at a sequel.  A better sequel would have cast the original characters.
2013-01-31	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is a fun movie. It's predictable as are the rest of the Fast & Furious movies, but it is still a great movie...again, the cars are great.
2014-02-18	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love this movie. It was a great follow up to the first one. would recommend it to anyone who likes the series.
2006-06-21	3.0	11	12	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The cast in this movie was extremely well chosen, and they all acted very well.  Sean is a reckless, charming, somewhat troubled teenager, but he doesn't come across as stupid and careless--despite his angst and frequent bungles, he is immediately likable.  When a car race with a peer at his school results in two wrecked cars and extensive damage to a local construction site, the only alternative he has to jail is to move to Tokyo and live with a relative (his father, I thought, but maybe his uncle...).In Tokyo, Sean quickly discovers the racing scene.  After trashing a race car, he has no choice but to work for Han, the car's owner, as compensation.  Han is by far the best character in this movie, to the point that he seems out of place--you just don't expect a character THAT good in this sort of action flick.  Han is a whimsical, philosophical and intense character.  He completely upstages Sean and almost from the first moment you see him, calmly eating his chips while he watches Sean destroy his expensive race car, you want to see more of him.Much of the movie's impetus comes from D.K. and Neela.  D.K., short for "Drift King," is the top racer in the area and the nephew of a local yakuza boss.  He's partners with Han and is obsessed with Neela, a peer of Sean's at school.  D.K. dislikes Sean immediately, noting Sean's interest in Neela and tensions between the two of them escalate throughout the movie, leading to the "climax" which is a night race down an extremely windy road out in the middle of nowhere.  The races in general are pretty entertaining and are a good length, time-wise.This was a good flick with a few really excellent qualities.  The plot was a little hazy but there was one, and the characters were very well developed.  Just the Han character made it worth seeing, for me.  I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoys action movies.  It was at last as good as the previous two movies in the series.
2009-04-11	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is a fun movie. Probably my favorite of the series, and  the most realistic!
2012-12-28	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is a great product eventho it's my least favorite of the whole series if u want to collect all of The Fast & Furious you must get this!
2014-03-18	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	it is a very good movie i bought it on amazon crazy story fragile disc well i bought the movie at walmart for 8 dollars so i let my sister watch it first bad idea she put one scratch on it never worked again so i went back to walmart they were out so i bought a new one here
2006-06-25	1.0	5	13	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Just when you thought it was over.Just when you thought it was safe to visit your local Walmart's parking lot on a Saturday night.Just when you started to no longer anticipate the sounds of weed whacker-sounding, Asian-made, hot pink/green/blue, sticker-infested eyesores banging through gears while you're just making a trip to your local supermarket to buy a carton of eggs...THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS: TOKYO DRIFT HITS THEATRES!* screams *And this time, it's not enough that they further promote impressionable, naive children, with too much to prove, to go out, spend their allowance money on ricing out mommy's Camry, and kill themselves and others. No, no. This one goes on a deeper level.They took a classic Mustang......still with me?They took a classic Mustang and put a NISSAN ENGINE IN IT.If that's not spitting in the face of American culture, I don't know what is. I know this will result in a practically infinite amount of not helpful votes, but you just do not do that to classic American muscle. A Mustang with a NISSAN ENGINE?! That's a travesty. Ricers, stick to messing with the little compact cars with 75 horsepower, not American muscle. You make real car enthusiasts look bad.Oh yeah, and the movie is terrible as well.Do not see this summer. Someday, when VH1 does "I Love The 00's", this will be one of the decade's fads that they will mock. Can you picture Hal Sparks' comments? "In Fast and the Furious, the moral of the story is, everything will work out when driving an animated car!"
2006-12-13	4.0	6	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I thought this movie was exactly what it was supposed to be.  There was no big name actors, but there was also no bad acting.  Everything was perfect.  The cars were absolutely sick and the scenes with them were amazing.  If you like cars and you like speed, there is no way you can miss this movie.  I am not going to say it is better then the 1st or 2nd Fast and the Furious, but I am not in any way going to say it is worse.  Watch the movie, you'll like it.
2008-09-23	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Unless the movie show many strange behavior about the Japan culture, the director make a great rescue in the Fast & Furios sequel.Great CGI and photo shoot work, make this work to enjoy a good action movie.The bonus in the DVD, show a good work and have complete material to learn the tricks than they use to film the movie.I'm particularly like, because is not the clasic mafia, war action movie. Is about the cars and the speed. Noting more.
2007-05-08	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love this movie, the graphics are pretty good in HD. I highly recommend this movie to everyone that has a HD player!
2008-01-03	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Why are people being so ignorant towards the 3 fast and furious movies?  I can understand your hate for street racing or even bad acting, but you cant hate the fact that all three of them broke records in the box office, and DVD sales are no joke either.  Majority of people like these movies.  Yes, number one had car related comments and descriptions that made absolutely no sense to a gear head like myself, and of course number 2 had stunts, that not even EVIL himself would attempt but the third one (tokyo drift) is as realistic as you can get.  Stunts were ALL performed.  I catch myself watching these movies majority of the times not for the story line, or plot or even the acting, but for the  cinematic features involving the unique cars pretty girls and stunts that i "dont perform" but envy.So, if you want to waste a written review, go do so on the regular DVD.  When i read reviews for movies in the HD format and the BLU RAY format, I am solely looking for1: Audio reviews (1 through 5 stars with reason)2: Video reviews (1 through 5 stars with reason)3: Extra feature (1 through 5 stars with reason)and finally i would like to see an overall opinion and if it is worth purchasing for BLU RAY OR HD or just keep my original DVD . . .Soo for the final time, please dont make me go through 20 pages on how you thought the rice burner and the army brat did not work well together, you are not ROGER EBERT.  stick to the water cooler talk.P.s  sorry for the rant.
2013-05-10	1.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Not that any of The Fast and Furious franchise movies were good, this one in particular, is bad. Terrible acting, writing, and the story doesn't make much sense. The first one was decent, this one is not.
2007-01-11	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Lots of car driving action. A good movie. I would love to see the next F&F with Vin D.
2012-10-26	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is a great movie if you like the fast and furious movies. Was not able to find this in stores near me so I ordered it here! Birthday present for the boyfriend and he loves it.
2013-09-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Had to get this for the collection. Love the fast and the furious movies. Action packed all over the place
2013-08-03	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I like how its in Tokyo and its not really racing it &#34;Drifting Style&#34;. It's funny that the kid from a America has to learn about what is Drifting and how to do it successfully.
2013-05-18	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is the worst one in the series. That doesn't mean its all bad. It has cool cars and driving but that is about it. Watch it just so you know what happenes and how it connects to the others.
2014-07-07	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	One of the corniest of the whole series, and that's saying something. Filled, as usual, with the normal wannabe tough-guy macho bullcrap. Poor acting overall, as to be expected, but I added a star because it's in a foreign (to me) part of the world and because I like Sung Kang's role.
2008-12-04	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Please allow me to put in my two cents as an Army brat who went to school in Japan from nursery school all the way to grade 12.  Not once did I wear a school uniform or have a Japanese-speaking instructor.  Nor did we ever wear uwabaki, for that matter.  Military dependents go to American school which look pretty much like stateside schools.  Why would they ever put an American in a Japanese classroom when it would only create a distraction and slow things down?  Movies rarely reflect reality.
2014-07-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	very enjoyable!
2006-08-27	5.0	0	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I loved this movie! I love imported cars, so this was a plus. I am studying Japanaese in college, and love Japanese culture, and this movie shows some asepcts of how many "years" ahead the japanese live from the USA, such as with ready made food from vending machines, video phones, and soccer courts on top of buildings. This movie is also an actual portrayal of how most of our teenage pasts as teens will be when talking about cars. Years from now, just as old people today show off their rides such as a 57 Chevy, we will be showing off these rides such as the 350Z,saying how cool the Nissan Skyline was.. etc...we are the generation that began the ricers (Loud Civics, etc) and non ricers (S2K,Supra, 300ZX etc), lol.
2013-05-10	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I have all the Fast and Furiious Movies so far.  My entire family loves them.  We enjoy action movies. I wil recommend this to all my friends.
2007-06-18	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The Movie was great considering it didnt have Paul Walker in it!I loved the end with an old member watch it yourself!!!!!!
2014-01-22	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie is awesome! I already had the other 5 Fast and Furious, but had not gotten this one! I was not disappointed! I loved it!
2013-06-11	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I am a HUGE fan of the Fast & Furious movies but I had never seen this one because the characters were not the same as the other movies. My husband insisted we watch it and I have to say it was A LOT better than I expected.!!
2013-05-15	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Not the best of the furious series. Sequentially the last of the 6 released. Cool driving thought I felt like the leads story was forced.
2012-10-22	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Loved this movie! My favorite out of the serious. The only thing that could make this movie better is if it was in HD.
2006-06-28	1.0	7	10	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	F&F;: Tokyo Drift is the story of a teenager (strikingly similar in resemblance to Eli Manning of the New York Football Giants) who can't keep his foot off the gas pedal and nose out of trouble. Rather than face the wrath of the American legal system, he is sent to Tokyo to live with his estranged father.Of course, this leads to more trouble, destroyed vehicles, and a spectacular showdown to win a fair maiden's heart, as well as his freedom (and fortunately that of the audience, as the credits soon follow).The plot is cheesy and downright absurd, not to mention suffering from stereotypes and cliches.  For instance, are we to believe that a Yakuza crime boss (need I go on?) is really interested in the goings-on of teenagers who wish to settle a score, so much so that he will banish the loser of the race? How about the lead character's father, who just happens to have a 1960s Ford Mustang lying around in the garage. If you haven't seen the movie yet, you'll be surprised with a guest cameo appearance near the end.It is unfortunate that the target audience is young adults who will leave the theatre having learned that street racing is a "peaceful solution" (actual quote from the movie). If you stick around for the credits you can tell your friends that you witnessed a paradox. Yes, after watching the entire 100+ minutes of Tokyo Drift, a disclaimer tells you that street racing is dangerous, do not attempt, and so forth (in other words, forget the $10 dollars you just spent as well as the movie, and drive safe).Aside from all the unpleasantness, however, we are treated to the message that within every American, there is a Japanese soul waiting to be unleashed (I am referring to the aforementioned Ford Mustang that was fitted with an Nissan RB26DETT motor to compete in the epic climax). An unlikely pair who manage to work together and defy the odds. Truly the stuff of legend.
2006-07-24	5.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Tokyo drift moive is great! i guarnatee no money was wasted when i watch this movie with my wife.
2007-08-05	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I wanted to see this movie in the theaters last year but didn't get to it. They have been showing it on cable non stop and I have watched it about 15 times. I enjoyed this movie. Unlike some reviewers I think moving the story to Japan was a great idea. The series needed a change. The movie is like need for speed underground 2. Compared to the others it is very slick, most of the racing takes place at night, and lets face it the drifting just looks cool. Yes the story is fake. How does an American go over to Japan and become the new drift king especially since he had never heard of drifting until he got there. But, see you have to enjoy the movie for what they are giving you. The movie is not about the characters it is about the cars. Think about it for all the people that went to see Transformers did you go see that to see people talk or robots transform. You know the answer. Enjoy the cars women and drifting and enjoy the show. There is one character I liked Hahn was a pimp and cool as s..t. Best character in the movie.
2013-02-09	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is my son's favorite movie so I bought him several copies for christmas. A fast action-packed movie that keeps going faster and faster.
2013-05-31	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Fast and Furious... Love it! Cant wait to see how they incorporate this one in Fast 7... Is it JULY 2014?!!!
2013-09-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This will keep you on the edge of your seat with the great movie and the music, which is a perfect match. For best results, watch it on a HD TV with surround sound and turn it up. You will feel like you are in the movie.
2014-02-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Another hit.Am anxious to see what's next,considering the great lose of Paul Walker.I have seen all his movies and never saw a bad one.I only hope his family is doing o.k..
2007-07-30	3.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Here is the good in the movie:CARS!!!  Lots of them and most of them beautiful.  I enjoyed watching them move fast and was appreciative of my sound system because when they zoomed by not only did it sound good, but my bass made it feel good.  The drifting was pretty cool, though by the end of the movie there was just too much focus on that aspect of "racing".  This movie had some cool car chases and car races, even before the drifting came into play.  The races were the only thing keeping me on the edge of my seat.HD-DVD.  I'm reviewing the HD-DVD version of this movie.  Wow!!!  Every scene was pristine and awesome.  Not a single detail gets missed and was one of the better high definition movies out there as far as film quality goes (some of them don't look much better than a standard DVD does).  I'll give the movie an extra start just for this.Unfortunately, there was a lot of bad about the movie:The story.  Ugh!!!  It was hard to find anything in this story that was believable or smart.  Little in this movie actually made sense.  Often times when a movie's story is this terrible it seems like the writers and actors were aware of this and you could tell it in the performance.  But I'm actually afraid that those involved with the story actually thought it was a good story.The acting.  Oh please.The love story.  Blech!The reality factor.  I'm more likely believe movies like "Battlefield Earth" would happen before anything in this movie would actually happen.By the middle of the movie I just started fast forwarding to the action.  That was the only redeeming factor in this movie and that made it so I was glad I didn't catch this in the theater.  I don't think I would have made it through the movie without walking out or falling asleep.If you will be entertained by the picture quality and the car racing scenes then pick up this movie.  If you are looking for a good story then avoid this movie like the plague.
2007-12-16	5.0	18	20	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Lucas Black (the kid from the "American Gothic" TV series and the "X-Files" movie) has matured into a charismatic young actor with a brooding screen presence. He does a terrific job picking up the franchise torch from Vin Diesel and Paul Walker in this killer sequel, a well crafted guilty pleasure that delivers the Fast and Furious goods.Sexy, colorful, edgy, expertly paced, with a great opening sequence and a knockout ending, "The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift" is formula genre filmmaking at its absolute finest. The movie has a beautiful female lead (Nathalie Kelley), cool sidekicks, wonderfully over the top villains, and a great setting (the filmmakers do a great job utilizing the Tokyo locations).This movie is a real rush of adrenaline. A wicked guilty pleasure that lives up to its title.
2014-01-02	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift (2006). Rated PG-13. Running time: One Hour, 44 mins. Widescreen.Sean (Lucas Black) and Clay (Zachery Ty Bryan) do not like each other in high school and they chop down each other about their cars. They decide to car race. The winner gets the girl (Nikki Griffin). They unlock the gate of a construction site called Shangri-La Estates. Afterward, the race meets an end, Sean is arrested. Because Sean keeps getting into trouble, the family has had to move to other cities. But this time, in order to get out of Juvenile Hall, he takes a flight to Tokyo, Japan to be with his father (Brian Goodman).Will Sean stay away from cars and racing? Not a chance.Also in the cast: Bow Wow, Sung, Kang, Brian Tee, Nathalie Kelley, Jimmy Lin, Shin'ichi Chiba, Victoria Gracie, Rana Morrison. Vin Diesel makes a special appearance.Filmed in Victorville, Hawthorne and Long Beach, California. Tokyo, Japan.I liked the Hulk car.Option of Language and Subtitles: English, Spanish, French.Bonus Features: Deleted Scenes. Drifting School. Cast Cam. The Big Breakdown: Han's Last Ride. Tricked Out To Drift. The Real Drift King. The Japanese Way. Don Omar "Conteo" Music Video.The Fast and the Furious (Blu-ray + DVD + Digital Copy)(2001).2 Fast 2 Furious [HD] (2003).The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift (2006).Fast & Furious (2009) [Blu-ray] (2009).Fast Five (Extended Version)(2011).Fast & Furious 6 - Extended Edition(2013).Update: Paul Walker died November 30, 2013 in the fire of a car accident while attending a charity event in Valencia, California. Fast and Furious 7 was re-written and will complete Walker's scenes using his brothers, Caleb and Cody, as stand-ins and voice actors, and with CGI-effects. Fast and Furious 7 will be released April 3, 2015. Kurt Russell and Jason Statham have joined he cast.
2013-05-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Not as great as the others but it's an on going series so get it as it's the third film and have a good time, that's what these movies are made for, they are not some comment on society
2014-03-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie was bought as a replacement for one that the DVD had become damaged.  We have all of the Fast and Furious  movies, they are all excellent entertainment if you like this type of movie.
2009-01-18	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I admit that I have put this movie off for quite some time.  I liked the first movie and felt that the absence of all original stars would make this lame.  I was only partially correct.The predictable obvious:-There will be a substitute for Paul Walker.Sean Boswell (Lucas Black) is an average substitute.  While a competent actor, he doesn't quite have the big man on campus/sliver spoon/prom king vibe that Paul Walker oozed.-There will be a substitute for Vin Diesel.D.K. "Drift King" (Brian Tee) is not even half of what Diesel was, despite the fact that he's supposed to be linked to Yakuza.  To be quite honest, he's neither as tough as either of Vin Diesel's bearded sycophants for the original, nor the original Asian bad guy.-There will be copious hot women.This was improvement over the original.  It would be pointless to prove this FACT; just go to the IMDB page and click the link for each actress.  Then google the ones that don't have pictures.  Trust me on this.  For starters, however: Nathalie Kelley, Nikki Griffin, Ashika Gogna, Caroline de Souza Correa, Verena Mei.-There will be a ton of racing and fancy cars.The racing in this movie is undoubtedly better than the original.  In fact, there appears to be more racing than storyline, which is probably for the best.  As for that...American kid gets in trouble for racing - he's been in trouble before.  He's forced to go to Japan to live with his Navy father.  In a matter of not time he finds the racing scene in Japan, where "drifting" is all the rage - it's nothing new, they did it on the Dukes of Hazzard all the time.  Boy wrecks car, owes someone car, gets involved in shady criminal underworld, becomes inexplicably trusted and befriended by nearly all popular people in school.  Boy gets girl, learns to race, wins final race, overcomes difficulties, saves the day.  Aside from that, there a few highly ridiculous parts of the script - particularly a gaijin taking on the Yakuza in any format and Bow Wow's groan inducing performance/subplot - that take quite a bit away from the movie.It's exactly what one would expect.  It lacks the "star" power of the original, but makes up for it with hot women and fast cars...or is it the other way around?
2013-12-29	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Movies greatJust can't watch it on my Mac like your site said I would be able to.  Great movie
2006-09-28	2.0	6	16	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Acting------------2 out of 10, You know you're in trouble when both Vin and Paul Walker turn the script downDirecting---------2 out of 10, Don't know who did it, Don't care, Don't do anymoreLocation/Scenery--8 out of 10, Tokyo always looks good, even in this bombAction rating-----5 out of 10, Alot of the same stuff we saw in the original, but the drifting was cool.......the first 10-15 times, after that, overkill big timeQuality-----------3 out of 10, No where near as sharp as the original, very poor editing and camera work, enough with the wannabe MTV video's.....Violence----------Medium high, Gunplay, fighting, poorly shotBlood/Gore--------Low, Nothing gross or disturbingNudity------------Hmmmm, gonna go with low/medium, cuz' the outfits these ladies wear are barely thereSex---------------Low, Think Of Vin and Michelle in the first oneLanguage----------High, Quite a bit actually, few F'ers, lotsa othersOverall-----------Teens are gonna love it parents, sorry, because you are really going to hate it........Total Score------20 out of 50, Grade C- barelyWhy in the H*ll was this made? The 2nd one was bad enough, but to add a 3rd act with none of the original cast, an extremely boring and subdued lead who was obviously chosen for eye candy, and cars we've all seen before is, well, lame!!! The first one was so much fun, original, funny, good racing and great action, even the acting was, well, decent. But this is just a mess, the only thing that saves if from the depths of a D or F is the wonderfull Tokyo scenery, man what a gorgeous place, Maybe if the director had focused more on Tokyo instead of those dumb cars and cast we might have had something.I think the whole trick-your-car and pimp-your-ride fad has come and gone, you see less and less low-riders on the streets these days (thank god) and more and more trucks and SUV's, you know, real vehicles. So, sorry to all the hip wannabe gangsters and street-racers, this movie blows and hopefully we have seen the last one is the series. Maybe sell your 'cars' and go buy a 4X4.
2008-12-27	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	With as many turns as the original, Tokyo Drift continues the story seamlessly and delivers all the hot cars, and hot driving you expect from a Fast and Furious title.
2006-11-21	2.0	14	20	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I learned quite a few interesting things about life from this movie.  This movie seemed to have quite a lot of plot holes.  Anyway, here is what I learnt about the world from this movie -1) The yakuza (they play the bad guys in this movie) have nothing better to do than race cars.2) If you are a car racer, you will never have to do jail time for any crimes you commit.3) If you cannot drive at top speed and make hairpin turns through a car park without crashing into something, you are a loser.4) Only gorgeous girls and guys with perfect bodies can drift.5) Everyone in the school is either rich, gorgeous or a gangster.6) It is perfectly okay to offer your car to a total stranger in a race - just to see what he's made of.7) Even if you get in a race containing three cars and drive at top speed through a full city, and end up killing someone, then the police will do nothing about it.8) If you are beautiful and blonde, it is a good idea to offer yourself up as the prize for a race, so your boyfriend gets involved in a race with another guy and almost kills all three of you.9) It is an even better idea to scream at your boyfriend that he doesn't love you when he is neck-and-neck with another car, so that he rams into the other car on purpose.10) If you walk away from a fight, you are a loser.
2013-07-22	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Son wanted to watch this movie and all I had to do was a couple of clicks and he was watching the movie...
2013-12-26	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is an overall good movie. Has a decent plot and decent acting. I don't like that the previous actors are not in the movie, at least Paul Walker is not and Vin Diesel only makes a small cameo at the end. It does have several good action/race scenes and gives a good look at life and cars in Japan.
2011-12-05	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie is a love letter to cars, drifting, and Japanese culture (as interpreted by an American).  The plot is a classic Bad Boy Makes Good, with a face-off battle to win in the end.  It's simple, direct, and accomplishes its mission very well.Other movies in the Fast & The Furious franchise come off as cheesy.  They try to be gritty and realistic, but with poor acting and contrived situations, they end up looking cheap and silly.  Tokyo Drift, on the other hand, takes advantage of a setting foreign enough that the ludicrous elements work well together.  Also, it involves exhibition of more real driving skill than any of the others.The production value is generally quite high.  Nearly all of it was filmed in the United States, but they did a very impressive job with sets and location selection, such that it really feels like Japan most of the time.  The "Japanese" in the film are primarily a conglomeration of various Asian American ethnicities, but really, it was done so much better than most other mainstream films which contain supposedly Japanese characters (e.g. Memoirs of a Geisha, which featured strong Chinese accents).  The soundtrack is extremely well selected and help keep the tempo up throughout the film.If you think it's ludicrous that Yakuza mobsters would attend the local high school, or that street racers would have drift-offs in the local parking garage, stop and ask yourself how realistic any show or movie about teens has ever been.
2014-05-22	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I loved the Fast and Furious movies but not this one....just not along the same lines as the others. I will watch the others over and over, not this one.
2013-02-13	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie is something I didn't expect the creators of the original to do. To take and change the whole thing from America to Tokyo is very different. Then add in the fact of the crew being mostly different people puts the twist into the plots. A great movie to add to my collection.
2006-11-04	3.0	2	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Before I start I would like to say that it breaks my heart to see all these gorgeous cars get wasted like that. I never heard of drifting till this movie came across my path and I was intrigued by what it entails. Anyway, I rather enjoyed the first one, the second one was decent but could have been better, and "Tokyo Drift" was.......interesting (?). If one thing's for certain, every installment of "The Fast & The Furious" is known for several things: cardboard acting, bare-bones plot, and tense racing scenes. For the first two movies, Paul Walker was the lead, and in every movie, he had to go undercover as a gangsta street racer taking down a syndicate. Sure, those movies weren't really deep, but with a good sense of humor to back up the implausibility, no one cared. Those movies made buck.Well, now that Paul Walker has left, along with Tyrese Gibson and Vin, the latest installment switches gears for a new type of ball game. Instead of an undercover cop, we got Brian O'Conner, as Lucas Black, (who almost ruined the movie for me due to his terrible accent and unconvincing age) as the trouble maker going hand to hand against the Yakuza. Justin Lin ("Better Luck Tomorrow") is, of course, leading the franchise to a new direction trying to add some bones to the franchise, but with the original producers of the franchise - Amanda Cohen (sister of director Rob Cohen, or so I think) and Neal H. Moritz - involved, it's pretty much the same deal. But that does NOT mean there's some fun to be had. They did a great job choreographing the cars and street scenes which kept my adrenaline pumping. They've done away with the "hyperspace" graphics when someone presses the nitrous button. There are a few scenes where the "hero", whilst learning to drift, thwacks a wall and the car doesn't show the damage in the next scene, but does at the end, but that is just down to bad editing. You'd think it'd be easy enough these days to CGI a few dents in for effect.Obviously, as soon as the intro and credits (for the first time) kick in, you get that feeling that you're not seeing an Oscar-winning hit here. For this installment of "F&F;," the budgets has gone smaller, but the ingredients are still there: CG-rendered cars racing across twisty highways, sexy girls populating clubs, minimal use of plot, and basically the worst acting you ever seen. Personally I didn't like Bow Wow's character too much. He seemed out of place in Tokyo and I'm not saying that just because he is not Asian. Bow Wow's character, Twinkie, seemed a little too...American for Japan. He had been living there longer than Sean, yet Sean some how managed to learn more Japanese than him. The only man that I feel saves the acting, possibly the whole movie, is Sung Kang. His character, Han, is so slick, cool, that you can even believe an actor this good signed on to this production. Other then "Tokyo Drift" is fairly decent but not as strong as the past two installments.
2014-07-04	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Gift
2006-09-27	3.0	6	10	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I think The Fast and the Furious- Tokyo Drift is slightly better than the second one. It's light years behind the first film though. The acting is fair but not everything works in the movie. The script is weak and at times I admit it's like you're not even watching a Fast and the Furious movie. It seems more like an after school special. Lucas Black gets in trouble for racing the older brother from Home Improvement. His mom then sends him to live with his father in Tokyo. His father warns him that if he goes near a car he'll kick him out. It's obvious from the start that Black isn't going to listen to those rules. Plus we know he actually won't ever get kicked out because if he's not with his dad then he'd have to settle for jail and then how would he be able to race or drift and then it would be no point in it being a Fast and the Furious movie. So that plotline is pretty pointless and proves to be pointles since in the end it..has no impact on it. The movie is mostly just about him learning to do a new form of racing to him called drifting. He damages each car he trys it in but of course you know he'll do better by the end.Lucas Black still fairs well here as a leading man but he doesn't have the screen presence of Vin Diesel or even Paul Walker. He's probably a better actor than Paul Walker. He went to a better acting school then the Keanu Reeves acting school that Walker went to I guess. Little "or medium sized" Bow Wow is also ok as Black's friend who doesn't race but sells things. This one has less sexy women and less hot cars than the previous ones. The direction is less flashy too. This one is just more juvenile and I can't say the Lucas Black character even changes, he goes there as a punk kid and basically just becomes... a wiser punk kid by the end. I also felt like I was watching the Karate Kid but with cars instead of Karate.
2006-06-29	4.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is a summer flick targeted squarely at young males. It pushes all the right hormonal hot buttons, sporting plenty of sexy cars, music and women. Plot? Who needs one when you're having this much fun? There is a story, by the way, albeit one so skeletal it's more like a tone poem on angst, rebellion and alienation. For maximum enjoyment, put your brain on cruise control, sit back and just enjoy the ride.
2008-03-01	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Even though I am well above the age that should like movies such as this...I couldn't help but be entertained.It doesn't get any shallower than this movie....the first FATF movie was about young 20 somethings trying to find their place in the world...Tokyo drift takes us back to the highschool days (but uses 20 something actors)both in America and Japan....exaggerated and stereotyped versions of both.The plot and acting doesn't even meet the standards of a Disney teen flick..but if you love cars, (particularly Japanese imports) street races and chases...then Tokyo Drift is for you. It is beautifully filmed...and looks spectacular in HD. This movie is all about over saturated colors, pumping music and screaming engines/screeching tires. Just toss a bag of popcorn in the microwave, shift your brain into neutral (no thinking required) and have a good time with this movie.
2014-07-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Good movie.
2013-11-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	i love this movie!!if your like a fan of fast and the furiousyou should differently pick this one up!
2009-09-23	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	good car flic , if youre over 40 as i am , you may not like all the drifting stuff. but hey , its still a car movie
2011-10-23	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	A lot of people don't like the lead character in this movie, but I thought it was a good change in direction for where the movie franchise was headed. In my opinion this is the movie that saved there franchise, after that gigantic-pos-mistake-they-call-2-fast-2-furious.Some of the scenes are shot in cgi and people complain about how fake it looks, but most people can't even tell.
2009-03-23	2.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	this would have been alot better if it was an american movie.  there is to much drifting.  they dont race like amercans.  if you like the other 2, than you probaly can live without this.
2011-10-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	by far the best fast and the furius out yet even the than the one with the rock not one sappy moment in this whole movie
2013-02-25	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	the movie was great just not really part of the story line for anybody whos into fast and furious you dont see how it adds up intill the end of the movie when dome shows up and races the main protagonist ied say get it if your a fan but dont worry if you have no idea about anything from the series
2009-01-18	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This product arrived very quickly and was just as promised. It made my 11 yr old very happy this christmas :)
2007-05-27	2.0	8	11	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Like many "Japan Movies" however, this is not a movie about Japan as much as Japan serving as an exotic location against which Westerners have their own adventures. There was a period around the turn of the century when most Western books and movies about Asia were simply exotic backdrops for stories about Europeans, and it appears 100 years later we are not completely out of that era yet.Not, I hasten to add before I get too high on my liberal horse, that there is anything inherently wrong with that. For that matter, Japanese media often employs the same device, and Japanese comics and movies are often filled with stories of Japanese people going to America and having all sorts of bizarre adventures.But it is noticeable that none of the main characters in this movie are Japanese. The hero is a white American, the best friend character is a black American, the mentor is a Chinese American, and the love interest is an Australian of indeterminate ethnicity. A multi-cultural cast certainly, but the rest of the Japanese characters are mostly reduced to the background. More is the pity because the producers were able to get a few of Japanese most recognized television talents to make cameos on this film, and then only gave them bit parts.In fact the only Japanese who figure into this story at all are the villains. I remember thinking the first film in the series, with its Chinese bad guys, was drifting dangerously close to reviving the old stereotype of the swarthy Asian villain. This film again has chosen to focus on a white protagonist battling slimy Asian gangs.However I am hesitant to call racism too quickly, especially since the director of this film and many of the crew are Asian American themselves. Instead, let us just say that the film has some unfortunate missed opportunities, and it could have been a lot better if it had done a better job of integrating its Japanese cast.As for my critique of the film's portrayal of Japan:The entire film is set in Tokyo, which I have thus far spent appalling little time in, despite my 5 years in Japan (mostly due to my hatred of crowds). Tokyo is to some extent almost a separate country, and the rest of Japan views it in much the same way we Midwesterners view California, as that crazy place where anything goes, fashion and youth culture are at their cutting edge, and nobody has any morals.If you watch the DVD, the director's commentary is pretty interesting, because he talks about some of the things he exaggerated, and some of the things he didn't. (For example, given the fact that Tokyo is one huge traffic Jam, most of these car racing scenes that take place in the movie are pretty laughable).Also it turns out that, like "Lost in Translation", this film was apparently plagued by Japan's restrictive rules regarding film permits, and a lot of the Tokyo footage they either had to take illegally, or film in L.A. on sets that recreated Tokyo.The school uniforms, school slippers, and look of the school was all pretty much dead on. However in my experience, a tall white guy cannot walk into a classroom in Japan without causing, if not massive disruption, at least a considerable show of interest and questions. I found it slightly surprising that he could simply walk into the classroom and be accepted as a new student, but then I live out in the countryside in Kyushu. I'm sure Tokyo is a lot more sophisticated and international.Of course, the big point of this movie is not Japan or the cast, but the cars.I will say this though, I now have a whole new appreciation for "Crash" by J.G. Ballard. When he I read his book about sexual eroticism and car crashes, I thought he was only being metaphorical about our society's addiction to automobiles. 15 minutes into this movie, I realized that some people, like the target audience for these films, do seem to literally equate huge car crashes with pretty girls and sexual arousal.
2007-03-24	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie is of great quality and if you are into cars you will appreciate it. Even people who look at this film as being too "ricey" will like the twist that comes in at the end. The stunt doubles do really great jobs in this film. Keiichi Tsuchiya (the real Drift King) is even in this film as a fisherman. He also does some of the stunt drifting and you can access a small portion from the special features menu. Great movie and definately worth the price! I actually saw it twice before I bought it.
2009-04-13	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Five years after "The Fast and the Furious" sped its way across the silver screen, the third installment in the franchise, "The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift", raced its way into theaters. After two successful entries into a series that most didn't expect much out of to begin with, can this third iteration featuring an all-new cast, style of racing, and country gain enough traction to build upon the success of its predecessors or will it leave the series simply spinning its tires?"The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift" explores the illegal world of underground street racing in and around Tokyo, Japan. Unlike in the states, the primary style of racing over there is a much more difficult, and outrageous form known as drifting - where drivers' skills are put to the test as they must navigate hairpin turns at incredible rates of speed. Joining the ranks of these racers is a convicted racer from the United States named Sean (Lucas Black) whose parents had hoped he would be able to start a new life in this foreign land. However, when racing is at the core of your very being, it's hard to walk away when the temptation of high speeds is calling out to you.Even though I had seen the first two films in this series, I found myself with little to no interest in seeing this third one. The only reason I could come up with for this lack of confidence in the film, was because I thought the second one was a little weaker than the first, even though it at least featured one returning cast member (Paul Walker for those that don't recall) which garnered some favor; however for this film there appeared to be no original cast members returning from either of the previous films. So, in my opinion there didn't seem to be a whole lot of potential for "Tokyo Drift" to actually be all that good. Based on the box office results for this film, I felt that my estimation for the movie was fairly accurate, and I was pretty sure I wouldn't get around to watching it anytime soon, if ever for that matter. Then, there came along the recently released Blu-ray collection of the trilogy. Because I wanted to own the first two films on Blu-ray, and they were only available in a trilogy box set, I knew that I would end up with the third one anyhow. Which meant that since it was now in my possession, and I had already watched the other two, I may as well put this one into the player and see how it fares by comparison. Much to my surprise, "The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift" is actually a pretty good movie. Granted it's not as good as the first film, and is perhaps a little below "2 Fast 2 Furious"; the film still did an admirable job of keeping me entertained to varying degrees from beginning to end.Written by newcomer to the series, Chris Morgan ("Wanted"), "The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift", was a surprisingly well put together story, albeit with a few contrivances and convenient plot devices employed. I figured that if this series ever made it to a third movie it would most likely be tapped out in terms of story, unless they would be willing to resurrect some of the characters from the previous films and delve into them a bit more. However, I was wrong, because Chris Morgan wisely chose to shake things up dramatically to inject a new sense of life into a franchise that was running the risk of becoming stale in a hurry if the status quo remained intact. The inclusion of the new style of racing (which was incredibly fun to watch, especially for someone that hadn't really seen it done before), having not just a new city, but an all-new country as the backdrop for the action, and making it more of a fish out of water-esque story opened up several new doors for the series to walk through.Even though the story brought new energy to the series there were some problems that plagued the script along the way. For starters, the character of Twink (played by Bow Wow) seems to have an endless supply of goods which he sells to whoever has the desired amount of cash. This wouldn't be a trouble spot for me, except that Twink is merely a high school student, and by all accounts shouldn't have access to the amount of goods and services he has at his disposal. If the writer really wanted me to believe that Twink was capable of gaining access to all this stuff via stealing or whatever, then that is fine, but I believe that we should have seen this at some point within the story. Instead, his character came off as a little too unbelievable for my liking. Also, the whole plot point of sending Sean to Japan seemed like a big leap for me. Sure he's apparently gotten into a lot of trouble over in the U.S., but having his mom just give up and ship him over to his dad (who doesn't seem like he'll be all that good of an influence) seemed a little too convenient of a way to introduce us to the world of drifting. I know it was necessary to get the character over to Japan, but it could have been achieved within the story any number of ways, and most of them would have been more successful.The last problem within the story that I will discuss revolves around the drifting style of racing that the movie focuses upon. I appreciated that a new style was introduced (as I mentioned a moment ago); however, there seemed to be numerous times that the characters opted to drift (unnecessarily) rather than drive straight (as in the previous two films). This was especially evident during a car chase sequence where all the drivers were drifting around traffic and other miscellaneous obstructions, when if they had simply moved over slightly they could've just driven straight (or relatively straight), thus gaining more speed to outrun their pursuers. It was due to these weaknesses within the story that caused several lapses in believability, resulting in a somewhat diminished opinion for the film.Helming this third venture into the high-octane series is director Justin Lin ("Annapolis"). Lin brings a somewhat more grounded sense to this film than what was showcased in the previous film under the direction of John Singleton. The majority of the action seemed to be done using real cars, with little CGI enhancement being employed. The second film used plenty of real cars as well, but numerous sequences displayed obvious CGI usage in place of the real deal. With "Tokyo Drift", director Justin Lin appeared to stretch himself a bit more as a director, getting away from the straight-forward, generic camera style he used in his previous American film "Annapolis". For a movie such as "Tokyo Drift" to really fit in with the rest of the series, it requires that a little more flair be brought to the camera work, and Lin came through surprisingly well. He offered up a slick piece of American cinema that fits in perfectly with the tone and feel of the previous two films, while establishing the movie as a standalone entity within the franchise.The cast for this film was comprised of numerous young acting talents, some more capable than others at their craft, and based on most of the cast member's limited experience, I really didn't expect much out of them either. As you can see by now there were several factors that led to me viewing this film with rather low expectations. Anyways, leading the cast is actor Lucas Black ("Jarhead") who gives a decent, although flawed performance as Sean. With a slight southern drawl, that is inconsistent in thickness throughout his entire performance, and a few instances where Lucas portrayed a somewhat down home country charm when attempting to woo the ladies, there weren't too many layers or points of interest to be found in his character. Truth be told, Lucas was probably the weakest cast member performance wise, showing nary a hint of emotion beyond a slight smirk or chuckle here and there, which does cause a bit of a problem due to the fact that his was the lead role.Thankfully, many of his supporting cast members were there to help mask his shortcomings as an actor. Rapper turned actor Bow Wow (formerly Lil' Bow Wow) has become quite the decent performer with roles ranging from TV appearances ("Smallville") to several feature films ("The Johnson Family Vacation" and "Roll Bounce"). Out of all the roles I have seen him in, I think that his character of Twink in this film, is probably the most interesting, and likely the most fun to play. From his eccentric taste in cars (an Incredible Hulk themed car), to his penchant for finding virtually any and every possible good that his customers requested, almost nothing about Twink was normal. Even though his character pushes the limits of believability in places, Bow Wow does his level best to keep the character as grounded as possible, and delivers a solid performance in the process.Alongside Bow Wow was actor Sung Kang ("Live Free or Die Hard") as Han, a talented drifter, who befriends and trains Sean in the ways of drifting. Sung created a very interesting character in Han, by having him be as much of an outcast among the Asian community of street racers as Sean was being an American in their midst. I liked the way Sung always played Han as if he longed for a way out of the illegal street racing world he almost seems trapped by, and the way he looks at his "friends" in that world shows a clear contempt for some of the actions they take in order to get ahead. His was a character that was all about honor both on and off the track, and out of all the cast he was probably the most interesting of characters on display.Aside from the three characters mentioned above, the remainder of the cast was relegated to either quasi-cameo appearances or merely one-dimensional antagonists. Most of the cast whether in a more developed role or not-so developed did a good job with their respective characters. Besides Lucas Black, who perhaps with acting classes could do much better work, the cast worked out very well, and managed to keep the movie's story interesting without relying solely on the racing to propel the film from start to finish."The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift" was an energetic and fun ride that I'm sure introduced many of us to a new style of racing, but if you're like me you still preferred the other way instead. The film attempted to stand on its own as a movie without tying directly into what had come before it. In that respect, I feel that "Tokyo Drift" was a success of a movie; however, it sustained a much weaker box office than the previous two films, so perhaps this drastic of a change-up in a single installment wasn't the best of choices for this film's sake.As a side note, the title for this movie seemed a bit too long in my estimation; couldn't we have just stuck a number 3 on the end of the original title and called it a day? That's all I'm saying."The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift" is rated PG-13 for violence and language.
2014-06-04	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Great movie it's fast cars obviously lol.. My 6 month old son is even glued to the tv same as I am
2006-10-21	1.0	20	41	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	While some movies require that you throw out your disbelief, I had a very hard time doing so with this movie.  This movie was just plain stupid.  They should have kept this film story in the states.  Once everything moves over to Tokyo, the film plummets into inauthenticity the likes of which I haven't seen in a long time.  I would have respected the film 1,000 times more had it ended when the main character goes to Japan.So let's get this straight, Japanese high school students act like American high school students?  Lucas Black's character is simply told to go to a Japanese high school where he will simply pick up the language and make do?  Everybody speaks English ? His father lives in a tiny apartment yet has a garage that's about double the size of his apartment?I would have much preferred subtitles and a story that felt, looked and sounded more Japanese.  Japanese students are among some of the most polite students you will ever meet.  The Japanese culture is steeped and immersed in being respectful, polite and dutiful.  Real Japanese high school students would be embarassed by the way their culture was represented here.  Actually they probably wouldn't be embarassed, they would laugh at the film's poor attempt in showing true or even remotely true Japanese culture.  Japanese culture is not steeped in American hiphop and egocentric behavior and it's a pity so many Americans will see this film and actually think that Japanese students are just like American students.  There would be nothing further from the truth.  Japanese students do not act, look or sound like what was filmed here.  Not by a long shot.Given my dislike of how the Japanese culture was handled in this film, it left me finding the plot irrelevant.  The plot was OK but it would have been much better if they had either stuck to a more authentic representation of Japanese culture or kept the story in the states.
2014-06-12	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	If you like car racing, you're going to love it! It's a great action movie. And if you like beautiful women, you are going to enjoy watching Nathalie Kelly!
2013-12-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	What can a person say but amazing. This series is almost a cult following with our family. We rarely go and see a movie in theaters but have seen most of these first hand and relived it over and over.
2006-08-25	5.0	2	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie is off the hook and Its one of the best of the fast and the furious.
2007-01-16	3.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	i dont love the face that the plot revolves around high school students...
2012-12-19	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I got the movie for my boyfriend for christmas but I had to watch it before I gave it to him to make sure it wasn't a used movie, and it wasn't. Brand new, no skipping, no scratches. Perfect condition.
2012-12-12	2.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love the franchise, but this one is NOT one of my favorites. I suppose it takes more than just the one time to have it grow on you.
2007-07-21	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Put it this way this movie is not for everyone, period! its good for tuners and kids who love cars thats it. if you dont love cars or drive a piece of junk or is 90 years old and crippled watch something else. a lot of people had criticised the story line, what is there to criticise? youre watching a movie about cars and the underground world of drifting/racing whatever you wanna call it. go watch titanic if you want a good story line. for the people who likes to call themselves "proffesional" in racing, who thinks this is just antoher hocus bogus film will probably like the cars in the movie instead, theyre tricked out, nice body kits and performance mods, for that you have to buy the book: The Fast and The Furious: The Official Car Guide: All the Cars, All the Movies, it wont come with the movie. for the rest of the people just stay away from it if youre not even close to knowing what racing is all about. no point of watching something you dont like, theres more movies out there......
2006-10-18	4.0	3	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The Fast and the Furious Tokyo Drift is about a 17 year old kid named Sean played by Lucas Black. Sean loves cars and he loves to race them but it's too bad he can't get away from the police like Brian O'conner (Paul Walker) because he's already been caught twice and is on his way to a third strike. Sean ends up wrecking his car in a race against a high school jock who was racing to keep his girlfriend. Sean gets caught and instead of going to jail he goes to Tokyo to live with his father.What you have here in Tokyo Drift is a new beginning for The Fast and The Furious series. Vin Diesel is no Oscar winning actor but he made The Fast and the Furious good, you can't lie and say it doesn't need him. Since Diesel won't come back and even with help Paul Walker can't give the film what it needs why not change everything but still keep the idea of being Fast and Furious. The film seems to be trying to start something new just like the original film being the first of its kind. The only material I've been able to view Japanese drifting is in the anime Initial D and this film. Both show different views on the style of the people who drift in Japan. One similar thing is that everybody's cocky and sure of their skills and everyone lives and breathes drifting. I have to tell the truth because I truly think this film is up there with the first one, I'm not saying it's better but this nicely done and has an original story just like the first film.Although the cast may sound weak I had a little faith in Lucas Black and little faith in Bow Wow. Bow Wow is actually a talented actor and does a nice job supporting Lucas. One thing I hated was that the writers just had to add the hot girl that is in the middle of two guys. She has to choose between the guy she is supposed to love because his family saved her life and the new guy she's supposed to hate because he's an American. You think that people would get tired of that stuff by now, when will someone surprise me with something different. In the first Fast and the Furious it was Brian chasing Toretto's sister, in the second Brian was chasing Monica (Eva Mendes), and now you have Sean who's chasing Neela.I have plenty of positive things to say about this film. I really liked this story even though it was getting too close to being another one of those teen movies. I love the drifting and the way it was filmed; I had doubts about the whole drifting idea. I thought drifting would be fun to do but boring to watch and I was wrong because it was hot. The slowed down scenes to show just how close these cars come to hitting the wall and spinning out of control is amazing. What I loved most about this third film is that there is a perfect blend of action throughout the film. There's not too much talking and not enough action or too much action and not enough of a story. The city was beautiful, lots of lights, cool buildings, and plenty of color. The characters are all written well and actually have deep stories. There's not as much NOS used and not as much speed as the first two movies but this movie is still very exciting. I don't think I can stress enough on how great the drifting is and how beautiful the cars are. Fast and the Furious Tokyo Drift is entertaining and hopefully there will be more from the series like this one.
2011-03-11	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	i'm a die-hard fan of fast and furious fanchise ( own 4 movies, all blue ray of course ) this's no boubt the 2nd best FF movie ( orginal one always is the best ) followed by tokyo draft, 2 fast 2 furious and the last one-fast and furius. the 4th one in my humble opinion is the worst one: there's not alot of racing. like 5 minutes in the middle and last 15 minutes of mostly CGI. worst yet the car: i've no problem with american muscle cars( i'm an american citizen btw:) ) but i always love and a hard-die fan of Tuners ( my favorite are RX-7 bathurst-in yellow and Evo 8 in black )
2014-02-16	1.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie was not what I expected and I only made it through 20 minutes before I had to turn it off.
2013-07-11	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	If you like drifting this is the movie for you, still a good movie even though the originals aren't in it only one at the end
2014-01-25	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Rather than regurgitate the plot of the movie as many reviewers have kindly done, I'd like to point out how closely this movie follows the original 1984 film &#34;The Karate Kid&#34;.  Hopefully, my memory doesn't play tricks on me... it's been a while since I've seen &#34;The Karate Kid&#34; (Fantastic movie).1)  Sean moves from the United States to Japan.  Daniel moves from New Jersey to California.2)  Sean had some racing experience before meeting the bullies.  Daniel had some karate experience before meeting the bullies.3)  Sean is Caucasian, and not Japanese.  Daniel doesn't have blonde hair, but most of the other kids in his new school do.4)  1st encounters with bully:  Sean got beat at &#34;drifting&#34;.  Daniel simply got beat.5)  Han took Sean under his wing.  Miyagi took Daniel under his.6)  Han gave Sean a car.  Miyagi gave Daniel a car.It keeps going.  :)Of course, there are differences too!  * However *, I really don't want to spoil the movie for anyone who hasn't seen it.Thanks for reading this.  Happy shopping !!!  :)
2007-01-02	3.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	After getting involved in a car accident racing the school jock, Southern boy Sean Boswell is sent to live with his father in Tokyo. The conditions of the move are that he stay away from cars and stay out of trouble, otherwise he'll be sent back to America and go to jail. So of course his first day in school Sean winds up racing the nephew of a member of the Japanese mafia over a girl he has no business talking to. Pretty soon Sean is racing every day and learning how to "drift" a style of driving that involves sharp turns and dangerous curves. With tons of car racing, dangerous men involved in illegal activities, and a beautiful girl caught between the bad boy and the clueless outsider, 3 Fast 3 Furious is indeed a wild ride.I liked both of the previous Fast and the Furious movies, so I thought I would like this one. It was okay, but not great. Sean's pathetic attempt at a Southern accent was hard to tolerate and a disgrace to genuine Southerners. Bow Wow's role as the funny guy who can't help but get into trouble was one of the more redeeming parts of the film along with the character of Han, who takes Sean under his wing and teaches him to drift. Overall, this movie was okay. It's pretty entertaining and fast-paced, but it's nowhere near as good as the other movies in the series.
2013-06-27	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	While not my favorite of the series (in fact, because of one scene in particular it's my least favorite) it's still a wonderful movie. Great acting, awesome sequences, and definitely fits well with the series.
2014-03-24	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I have seen all the fast and furious movies and cant wait for 7 to come out .  I am very sad though that Paul Walker is no longer with us and will miss him in movies
2013-07-02	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I loved the cars , fast pace, location was good, missed some on the other original member but the movie was overall good
2011-11-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	By far, this is the greatest movie that has ever been filmed. I'm not a huge Fast and Furious franchise fan and when I heard they were making a "drift" movie, I automatically wrote it off. I thought the movie would be horrible and a bad attempt at trying to cash in on the "drift" trend. HOWEVER, one day it was playing on TV and I had no idea what the name of the film was. I was shocked to find out it was the very same movie I thought was going to be horrible. If you view it as a comedy, it is one of the greatest if not the greatest movie ever filmed.
2014-03-07	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Was kind of bad paul & diesel werent n ds one but i liked it after a few times. .now i like it alot!
2009-02-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The product was in great shape and never had been used.  It came fully wrapped and was delivered quicker than I expected.  The price was awesome compared to the price of the movie in a retail store.  Great buy all around!
2013-06-25	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The movie is good and gives you the background for the Tokyo character that appears in the next few movies.  I enjoyed it.
2009-09-30	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Moves at a good pace. Too slow in some spots. Cars are stars...drivers in 2nd place. My personal fav = Brian Tee. He makes the that metal machine look almost as good as him! He's the reason I invested my $$ in this DVD!!!
2013-10-17	3.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The title says it all. If anything made by the asylum doesn't keep you entertained for an hour or two, this ought to.
2011-12-30	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Bought as a gift. I wss looking for a box set with all 5 of the movies, but I think I came out cheaper buying them separate. The movie was still in the original packaging. No scratches or problems. Delivered on time. Great buy!
2014-02-12	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The movie was good, did not realize the character Dom was not in it.  Did love the ending when he showed up in his car.
2013-07-24	3.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Kind of liked the whole racing sideways thing, but still, no Paul Walker.  Are you kidding me?  What's a "furious" without Walker?  And also, that kid's southern accent was a bit too much.
2014-02-21	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Well we had to see the story continue. But I was surprised that Vin had such a small part in this. But I really enjoyed the movie.
2013-12-16	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I bought the entire series of movies (fast and furious) and all of them are good movies to have. You won't be disappointed.
2013-12-27	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	With Paul Walkers death I had to finish my Fast and Furious collection. Got this to finish out the collection
2013-07-25	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The sound mix was awful. All the music and effects were pumped up to ear-splitting, and the dialogue was assinine. It's like a child's fable of an Anglo version of stereotypical Japanese.  The gangsters were totally unrealistic.. Not on par with the others..
2009-04-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	It was an entertaining movie with a bunch of action.  I heard that it was a good movie from some friends and family and they were right.  There were some nice and some interesting cars in this movie and I felt like I wanted to try some drifting myself.
2009-10-19	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is a great movie and I was able to get the dvd at a very reasonable price. Quick shipping was a great plus as well ! ! !
2011-06-27	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love all of the Fast and the Furious movies, but I was very hesitant to watch Tokyo Drift based on all of the negative reviews it's gotten. I'm glad I took the risk and bought it anyway. It seemed like a very bad idea to make another movie and not have Paul Walker in it, but Sung Kang more than makes up for his absence. Han is easily the best character in the movie, and it's a shame that he wasn't the lead. This movie has some really nice looking cars, and I'd say Han's RX7 has to be the best looking car in the series. The races are fun to watch, and it's amazing that most of the driving in the movie is real. There are some pretty lame parts in the movie, like the prize in the first race and also the fact that Sean just walks into a school in Tokyo without knowing a word of Japanese, but it is just a movie. Its job is to entertain, and it does exactly that. The picture quality of the Blu Ray is perfect.
2007-01-04	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Not the most well thought-out developed plot, but the cinematography is great, races are action packed, and the scenes make me wish I had an HDTV.
2007-02-21	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I liked the movie. Sung Kang (Han) has some funny one liners. I think he wants the best for Shawn (Lucas Black) Brain Tee (DK) was great at playing he's character. I was surprised that Vin came back at the end. I think one more Fast and the Furious should be made. It should be about Dominic's and Han's time in Mexico. People keep compairing this movie to the first 2. And talking about all the differences (with the cars, ect.) and how they didn't really care for it. What people have to remember is IT WAS MADE BY A DIFFERENT DIRECTOR!
2009-01-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I thought it was a very good movie with a great storyline...and of course the cars were awesome as usual.  Looking forward to the next Fast and the Furious movie....
2006-06-26	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I watched this movie in theathers, twice. This movie is great. The first two versions of this movie suck, but this one is good. The drivers in this movie are awesome, drifting is spectacular. This movie will keep you in your seats until the end, trust me. This is a good movie.
2011-09-29	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I don't have to wonder how they live in Tokyo now, i saw it in the movie and I wish to go there and see it with my own eyes. Great movie, amazing toys and don't forget the hot girls there. I love you Tokyo!
2007-01-04	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	After first experiencing the previous Fast and Furious movies, this one is very unique.  The cars are very cool and so is the scenery in the Orient.  You will probably not recognize most of the actors in this movie with the exception of maybe Lucas Black.  I had never seen "drifting" before, but I would say it really takes talent to be able to "drift" successfully as demonstrated in this movie.  I saw the movie first in the theatre and then purchased the DVD from amazon.com.  Buy it and don't worry about it.
2009-04-02	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This film is a lot of fun! Lots of great action, and I just flat get a kick out of watching drift cars doing their thing (these ridiculous "Drift Comps" are stupid and boring. Drifting was created for mountain roads, NOT parking lots or sections of GP track like you see on TV).One thing I have issue with is the way the Yakuza is portrayed in the film. Yakuza are ruthless and lethal in the way they do business. The Yakuza seem to be near-bumbling fools in "Tokyo Drift". It was likewise nice to see "Konishiki" in the bathhouse sequence (he was one of America's premiere Sumo Wrestlers in Japan, back in the late 80's).Lucas Black has come a ways from his "Sling Blade" role some years back. He plays culture shock well. Japan HAS come far from it's post-war reconstruction, to be a world leader in technology, especially robotics."Fast and the Furious, Tokyo Drift" departs from the two previous films in location and actors, but I see that the next "F and F" film returns to the combo that started it all- Vin Diesel and Paul Walker. Hope it turns out great, because the first three films were!!
2013-04-28	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	To me, it lacked the luster of some of the others in the series.It was good but not as good.
2006-06-18	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This has to be one of the best films I have ever seen. When I first heard about how it was coming out, I thought 'Oh cool, more Brian and Roman Pearce!' And then, I realised that this featured none of the original characters. I still wanted to see it, but I didn't think it'd be as good as 2 fast 2 furious! I was completely wrong. This is way better than 2 fast 2 furious and that's saying something. I loved Sean and my favourite character would have to be D.K. - he was just soooo evil!It was funny, heart-stopping, and thrilling. Definitely the best, as while 2f2f was brilliant, it just didn't have the same effect. Plus, some new characters really put spice into it.This film is totally recommended. GO SEE IT!And to the person who said it had no script, no acting, no original characters and that only stupid people would like this - get a life!
2009-11-01	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Great movie full of action that actually has the dialogue to keep the audience interested. Great storyline, very well written. Has the dialouge and action, suspence to keep the audience interested and to want to watch it again!
2008-01-13	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I was very impressed with the HD DVD. The picture in picture feature on this title is the real star of this HD DVD. I loved this film and the bright colors and the Dolby Plus Plus soundtrack  really springs life into hi-def title. If you didn't the film there a lot features on this HD DVD to keep you entertained.The female lead,the drifting,the cars and Vin Diesel and the great picture and sound plus all of the great features on the HD DVD makes that title a must own!!
2010-08-30	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Tokyo Drift, although very good, lacks the overall feel of the other Fast&Furious movies. Part 4 is the best with parts one, then two, being second and third. Tokyo Drift is an excellent movie but just not as good as the others. I still would buy it though. Clearly, I already did.
2006-08-09	5.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	it has got more races than all other movies and has  driftingand more actionand the cool city of tokyo
2013-12-25	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Its a fast paced keep you on your toes kind of movie. Great storyline. I reccomend this movie for ones who enjoy drift racing.
2013-01-10	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	For sure a movie for teens, but its was well directed and has good racing and some cool cars. very pop culture oriented, not as urban as that of the rest of the fast and furious series.
2013-05-30	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I like the story line better with the original characters, but it was nice to see something different that incorporates a character in the later movies in the series. It also throws me off that this movie is out of sequence compared to the rest of the movies (this movie should come last). Overall it was okay.
2013-12-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Loved it! Paul walker at his best. The Fadt & Furious are excellent movies. A must see movie for all.
2013-05-28	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This franchise is an action packed series that never leaves you disappointed. Tons of fast cars and actions. Story line is good and leaves it open for the next film.  I highly recommend the Fast and Furious Film Series to anyone who loves fast actions and cars.
2011-05-31	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie okay. I think it is the worst of the Fast and Furious series. I had never seen it before. None of the original people were in this film until the very end.
2014-05-02	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Not all of the acting is good; The action scenes are good but obvious in their technical techniques, The story has amost nothing to do with the series. It is an obligatory homage to the art and background of &#34;drifting&#34;. Not enough different cars, but there actually are not that many more different types of  cars in Japan, either.Yet, I love the scenes in Japan, the culture, the fashion at that time, and the people. The main actor is wooden and the character portrays stupid too over board.I still love it!
2006-06-24	4.0	30	39	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Loud, Brash, Noisy, Sexy, Morally Murky, Bursting with Energy and Guts, Justin Lin's (the terrific "Better Luck Tomorrow") take on episode 3 of the "Fast and Furious" franchise is a great way to spend a hot Summer afternoon along with a gallon size soft drink and a tub of Popcorn.Here Lin is in Tokyo with the stoic, deadpan line reading Lucas Black (as the booted out of the US to avoid Juvenile detention, Shane Boswell...a car nut addicted to driving fast and grinning like a Cheshire cat) who, of course finds the local car culture and its inhabitants by way of a school pal, Twinkie played by the appealing Bow-Wow. And he just as quickly falls in with the "wrong crowd" consisting of Han, a sort of Sensei to Shane (the enigmatic and excellent Sung Kang from "Face" and "Better Luck Tomorrow"), and  the villain of the piece, Yamata  played with his face crunched and a constant sneer by Sonny Chiba. Then there is the lovely Neela (Nathalie Kelley...a dead ringer for FFI's Jordana Brewster): like Shane and Twinkie a High School (!)student with very, very permissive parents.Lin directs this piece to within an inch of its life: your eyes and ears are never bored, never without something to feast your eyes upon or pop your fingers to.Lin never judges his characters, we never feel that he is slumming...he always respects the material he is given to direct and he always puts his personal stamp on everything that he does.I wish he were given something as meaningful and heartfelt as "Better Luck Tomorrow" to direct but he's young and he has many many movies to make before he is through.
2006-09-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I like the movie only for Keiko Kitagawa i wish she had a bigger part in the movie
2007-01-15	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	You just can't get enough of the skillful drivers in this flick. There must be a hundred crashed vehicles in the making of this third sequel in the Fast and Furious saga. By far, this is the best of the three films.
2011-06-20	3.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This one is so silly that  crowds of thousands of people magically part in downtown tokyo so the 'drifters' can come through. And lets be honest drifting is lamest form of racing in cars ever, but that's just what most people who like car racing feel about it not everyone! . This has a backstory about a yankee in tokyo who must fit in. This one can't compete on any level with the other flicks but it's still worth owning if you like this over the top series. Which lets face it , the whole series is like a teen fantasy flick with cars doing impossible tasks. But fantasy race movies are no more silly than some sci fi flicks! which I love so.... Still this is like alot of series where it's only very loosely attached to the other movies and that's ok but if you like the others you will probably be disapointed with this one to a degree. On blu ray this looks splendid being a new movie you would not expect less.  The acting is decent here but this isn't a high drama really but a teen car movie and that's what you get. A movie that's not about a cop infiltrating racers and such but a teen flick.
2007-01-07	2.0	3	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	As the editorial reviewer noted, this movie is nonsensical.  I enjoy a good action-packed car movie at least as much as some but I feel impelled to write a review to balance out the unbelievable, nonsensical reviews that have come before.  While I'll agree that this movie is better than FNF2 it is nowhere near the original and it is a shame that this is another dud in what might have become a great franchise.It is unbelievable from the casting of 20(30)-year-olds to play the part of teenagers to the non-Japanese Asians hired to play Japanese characters to the basic premise that high-school students are able to hold driver's licenses in the first place.  This is not the Japan that I know at all and doesn't feel like it or look like it either - contrary to what another reviewer posted.The acting was wooden and the dialogue inane even though the characters were visually appealing.  The thing that made FNF1 a classic in the genre is that it was not only filled with hot cars and hot bodies but there was also a story that tied it all together.  This morality play is what made it worth watching - again, hot bodies and hot cars aside.  The subsequent FNF2 and FNF3 have lacked the story that brought us to the series.It seems producers forgot that and instead focused only on the visual aspects and none of the cerebral ones.  It's a shame because this could have been a much better movie than it was.  I wanted to love this movie but to give it a rating of 4 or 5 stars would be to make a total mockery of the rating system.I hope there is a Fast and Furious 4 but I hope the producers spend more time and money on the story than they have the past 2 attempts.  Going back to the raw basics that made the Fast and the Furious 1 great would go a long way to restoring the tarnished reputation brought by FNF2 and FNF3:Tokyo Drift.
2006-06-17	3.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	yest its probably leading further and further away from waht it started out as but i still liked it more than part  2 and way more than that roller ball movie no movie of the year but ketp my attention
2014-03-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	You can never go wrong with any of the Fast and Furious franchise! It will be interesting to see where they go from here now that Paul has passed.
2006-11-25	2.0	4	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Sean Boswell (Lucas Black) is a bad boy who keeps moving from town to town every time he gets in trouble. After racing against bully schoolmate Clay (Zachary Ty Brian) and getting in a fight with him, the police recommend that he move to Tokyo with his father (Brian Goodman) to learn some lessons. His father prohibits him from driving, but after meeting smooth-talking hustler Twinkie (Bow Wow), he enters the world of drift racing that goes around Tokyo. One of the reigning champions of the sport goes by the nickname D.K. (Brian-Tee). Little does he know that D.K. has ties to the Yakuza crime syndicate, and after losing a race, he is forced to pay off the debt of his loss by venturing into the deadly realm of the Tokyo underworld, where the stakes are life and death. And it doesn't help matters that he starts dating D.K.'s girlfriend Neela (Nathalie Kelly).If one thing's for certain, every installment of "The Fast & The Furious" is known for several things: cardboard acting, bare-bones plot, and tense racing scenes. For the first two movies, Paul Walker was the lead, and in every movie, he had to go undercover as a gangsta street racer taking down a syndicate. Sure, those movies weren't really deep, but with a good sense of humor to back up the implausibility, no one cared. Those movies made buck.Well, now that Paul Walker has left, along with Tyrese Gibson and Vin Diesel (or does he?), the latest installment switches gears for a new type of ball game. Instead of an undercover cop, we got a brat going mano-y-mano against the Yakuza. Justin Lin ("Better Luck Tomorrow") is, of course, leading the franchise to a new direction trying to add some bones to the franchise, but with the original producers of the franchise - Amanda Cohen (sister of director Rob Cohen, or so I think) and Neal H. Moritz - involved, it's pretty much the same deal. But that does NOT mean there's some fun to be had.Obviously, as soon as the intro and credits (for the first time) kick in, you get that feeling that you're not seeing a Oscar-winning hit here. It's your basic popcorn-munching alternative to the summer when other movies are playing. For this installment of "F&F;," the budgets has gone smaller, but the ingredients are still there: CG-rendered cars racing across twisty highways, sexy girls populating clubs, minimal use of plot, and basically the worst acting you ever seen.Too bad some of the action sequences aren't really exciting. While Lin does want to ramp up the absurdity (but not too much, because Sean is not the best drifter) for the sake of fun, it ain't much to write home about. There's quite a lot of shaky camera views, super-quick close-ups, and other stylish tricks to ramp up speed. It works for the second half, but I suggest for part 4 (if there ever will be one) that CG-rendered cars should be removed for real cars.And I don't really like the acting that much. Lin is obviously directing the trials and tribulations of Sean Boswell. But not only does Lucas Black (of "Friday Night Lights" fame) come off as a bad impersonation of Paul Walker with a hillbilly accent, but the producers prohibit some shade of character development. They even have Twinkie, played to comic relief by Bow Wow, own various types of bling and Lebron James shoes. The star power is small, except for Sonny Chiba and - in a cameo - Vin Diesel. Maybe it's a good idea, because doesn't the franchise cater to teenagers and adrenaline-fueled junkies?There are other questionable aspects: bizarre music played in background ("Bawitdaba" and a couple of tracks that sound like they came out of "Dance Dance Revolution") is one of my main beefs. But Lin has managed to save any creative energy for the last two race scenes which actually bring out some tension that was missing in the beginning. "The Fast & The Furious: Tokyo Drift" is still a far cry from a reinvention, but baby steps nevertheless.
2013-06-16	2.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I have all of the Fast FIve movies and this one may be the worst one.  It is not good.  The car scenes are cool and the cars themselves are nice to look at but none of the 'stars' of the franchise are in this movie except for VD cameo at the end and it is just not that great of a storyline.  I mean I don't really watch these movies for storyline I really just like seeing P Walker, V Diesel and Tyrese and the cars are nice.  This is not the best of the franchise.  Kind of blah.
2006-10-18	3.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	i didnt like this movie that much.first... it seemed like it was more like a mafia movie than a car racing movie.second... the original cast was not there, so what can you expect?third... i dont eve liked the cars.althoug it was great action...
2006-11-28	2.0	5	10	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	If you're looking for drifting, don't buy this movie. Get Initial D the live action instead. The hilarity in this movie is nonstop, from the terrible acting of the lead dude, apparently giving someone a southern accent is an excuse for them to be stupid, to the unrealistic situations and terrible dialog. Situations illustrating the previous flaws follow in synopses: Main character's mom (who, by the way is about 5 yrs older than him)-"I told you no more street racing, I'm sending you to Japan to live with your father, I'd rather spend thousands of dollars than just throw you out of the house." The poor kid from Home Improvement, I bet he never thought his career would include a spoiled teenager wrecking daddy's viper. I knew I was in for a funny movie with the Home improvement kid's girlfriend saying "Why don't you guys race and whoever wins, gets me." Oh, and did you know Bow Wow could act? Neither did I, and I still don't. It did remind me of fond High School memories of "drifting" up a mountain road and telling my future girlfriend my life story while tackling corners and getting good angle. Yes, that is included in the film. Please, don't bother, don't even rent it, unless you can get it free. I suspect the actors paid the filmmakers to be in the movie because I've seen Jr High Drama students with far better ability. I missed a lot of the movie due to persistant eye-rolling, a side effect that should be listed on the outside of the box. Cool cars worth 2 stars.
2012-06-18	1.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I can not finish the movie because Amazon's video streaming quality is so poor. I have never experienced this while using itunes movies. This is the first and last amazon movie instant movie I purchase.iTunes lets you download to your hard drive so you can always watch it and not have to worry about your internet speed. Also the quality is much better (both picture and sound).
2011-01-08	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	the ordering process was super easy and I didn't have to go all over looking for this somewhat old title. It came quickly and it couldn't have been easier.
2012-04-17	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The is the third movie in the Fast and the furious series. It is based upon a young teenager who loves to race and gets shipped off to live with his father in Toyko, Japan after he gets into an accident and crashes his car.
2009-09-07	5.0	1	9	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	THIS IS A GREAT MOVIE FOR A GREAT PRICE.  AMAZON WAS THE CHEAPEST PRICE I FOUND FOR A BRAND NEW BLU RAY.
2006-09-15	5.0	4	8	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie is pure pop garbage. The acting is sub-par, the portrayal of Japanese youth is based completely on American high schoolers' stereotypes, and the story is probably one of the LEAST developed in any film, in any country, EVER.That being said, you probably already knew that! If you can get past the quality factor, this movie is pretty rad! FF:TD light covers a lot of bases, if poorly: drift racing, single moms, military brats, J-hoes, the Yakuza, and Japanese-American cross-cultural relations. The action is pretty sweet, and the girls are SMOKIN'. I don't know too much about cars, so the import racer jargon is wasted on me, but um... I guess it sounds like Bow Wow knows what he's talking about.The one credit I do give to this film is on the subject of underprivileged teenage boys finding something constructive to build self-confidence with. Our hero has no friends, a lot of enemies, southern draw, detached father, and promiscuous mother, yet he's still able to keep his head up without selling dank or drinking himself to death. A modern-day blue-collar role model if I've ever seen one.
2006-06-19	4.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	So the fast and the furious series has had a reputation for bad plots, bad acting, and nothing but racing and scandelous looking women... but, I do believe the third installment of this series is by far the best. If you look past Lucas Blacks bad teeth and backwater country boy act, the movie isn't so bad. The cars were simply amazing and all the asian women, running around in short shorts and skirts so small they shouldn't even be wearing anything, made me practically blow a load in the movie theatre. Even if the import scene just isn't for you and you're a fan of the classics all the way, there's still a few scenes which will throw you in your seat. Sure there are many unrealistic parts where people would most likely not have lived from a dangerous crash or stunts but lets face it.. it's a movie... The action is awesome, the visual effects are smoking, and it keeps you on your toes and interested. I think the most exhilerating thing from this film was the orange RX-7 the character "Hahn" drove which was constantly bouncing off it's rev limiter and leaving trails of smoke in it's path. That car.. was so nuts. Go see it, watch some racing, have fun.
2013-08-12	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Upon revisiting this entry, I ultimately found it a bit less exciting than the others, but.. I still liked it.  It's quite different from the others, and really stands out with portrayed Tokyo racing style.  If you're a fan of the series, you should definitely watch it.
2013-07-30	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	First I thought it has link between the movie but it is a complete different story then the Fast and Furious movie, I like the story and unfortunate Lucas Black is not in another movie, wish one day he can join the team and his father is great.  I will recommend anyone who like car chase or driving to have this movie.
2012-04-02	1.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie doesn't not follow any themes of the previous fast and the furious. It doesn't have any of the original characters or story line. If it was just named Tokyo Drift, It would have been a very good movie. But since it has the name of something that doesn't match the other Fast and Furious movies, I would have to give it a 1 star.
2013-07-23	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Great movie, loved it. Watched & Have all his movies! Recommend to anyone, who enjoys fast pass movies with this much action.
2008-01-26	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie is by far the best in The Fast and The Furious franchise. People who say this movie has no plot has no idea what this movie is about. That's what the whole point is. It's about drifting not about a guy and a girl driving off into the sunset to spend the rest of their lives together. For once! Paul Walker is not in the movie. I enjoyed his act in the first film but the second just made me go, "Huh?". Tokyo Drift gave me more hope that racing films will survive in the future. The scenes were amazing just on DVD, although some Japanese scenes were filmed in the U.S. This was by far the greatest movie and thank God the main theme was drifting and might I add - not bad for a title. I like the acting by Lucas Black and it was pretty nice to bring back Vin Diesel in the end to try and connect everything. Black looked a little too old to be playing a role of a high school kid but it's all good. I watched this movie about 10 times and would still watch it just for the drift scenes. Note to future producers of racing films- follow this movie's example.
2013-02-19	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I liked the movie of  speed and how the director showed the way of furious driving in this movie. This to me was a explosive action movie that I found enjoyable.
2013-06-03	2.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I don't know what movie all the people giving this garbage 4 stars saw but all I saw was junk. Ok so a you cocky American reject comes to Japan to live with his Navy father because of troubles with the law in the U.S. Tell me if this makes sense to any of you reading this: he's a high school kid, he go's to the Japanese high school with Japanese kids, he gets an invite to see some drifting & one of the guys at the drift meet lets him borrow his car to race the drift king after he insults this guy while trying to pick up the guys girlfriend. All of this seems to go down in the first couple days of the guy arriving in Japan. So during the course of the movie, he learns the art of drifting & then races the guy who beat him at the start of the movie again to pay off a debt & also takes his girlfriend in the process. So let me tell you what was wrong with this movie, EVERYTHING!-The Japanese guys girlfriend was a typical bimbo who's just hangin out with this dude until something better comes along, our hero the American high school kid, she was in love with the guy the minute she laid eyes on him, no loyalty to her boyfriend who at that point had done everything for her.-Our main character attends a Japanse High School, now I've lived on mainland Japan & Okinawa a combined 6 years & I have never seen any American kids going to any Japanese schools other than the ones who's military fathers married local Japanese women & those are the hybrid kids who speak english & Japanese fluently.-For the final race, they took a busted Mustang that belonged to the main characters father & rebuilt it with a Nissan S15 engine as the power plant. Now if you are a true American who loves muscle cars then this should've been the biggest insult of all. You DO NOT take one of Henry's cars & drop a Japanese motor in it...The good thing about the movie was that in the end it came down to broken trust between two friends & it was not about the main female character even though I think the female character was under the impression that it was about her it good it wasn't. But it did end with this high school kid as the so-called new drift king of Tokyo which in itself was pretty insulting to the hardcore Japanese drifters. They take what they do pretty seriously and there's no way they would let some young underage upstart come in like that and make them all look bad. If Hollywood wants to do another F&F; movie in Japan, perhaps they should actually talk to the guys who are in the life & respect the trade...
2010-01-30	4.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Remember, this is not an Oscar caliber film, just don't put on your thinking cap, and you will enjoy it as much as I did. By the way, Sung Kang defiantly deliver, but the main guy... not so much.
2010-09-22	5.0	3	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The movie is excelent and the BD experience you can enjoy it to the limit with this one. Totally recommended
2013-06-16	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I live fast and furious movies this one is the prequel to fast 6 kinda the story of Hahn after the fact great movie
2012-11-06	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	My item got to me fast with no problems and the disk works just like the information explains on the site.
2013-01-11	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	good movie to watch if you want hot cars and girls at the same time. Definitely would recommend this movie.
2014-06-16	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I feel like this was the last movie that had anything to do with street racing and car culture. I like that it didn't take place in the US.
2013-01-13	5.0	3	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	As I was telling VD on facebook the other day, the official rankings of Fast/Furious movies are as follows:1) The Fast and The Furious2) Tokyo Drift3) Fast & Furious4) Fast Five.........Last) 2 fast 2 furiousTokyo Drift even out performs two of the Diesel movies, which is truly a remarkable accomplishment.  There are really only 2 reasons for this.  1) Han, the greatest character in Furious history.  2) Bow Wow, incredibly underrated performance, I'd compare it to DeNiro in Godfather 2.Top 5 Han Quotes in no order because Han is not a competitive man:1) Fifty percent of something is better than a hundred percent of nothing.2) I have money, it's trust and character I need around me. You know, who you choose to be around you lets you know who you are. One car in exchange for knowing what a man's made of? That's a price I can live with.3) Life's simple, you make choices and you don't look back.4) Police cars here are only factory tuned.If you can do better than 180K they can't catch you, so they don't even try.5) You didn't just play with fire, you soaked the matches in gasolineFinally, just to be comprehensive in this review, Lucas Black, while a better actor than the criminally inept Paul Walker, doesn't add too much to the movie, but the hot half-australian (?) female lead certainly does.  That's about it for me.  This is a top movie and should be treated as such.
2011-09-24	1.0	1	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	2 Fast 2 Furious was pretty bad but Tokyo Drift is far and away the worst film of the series. It goes without saying that the first one was the best, but both Four and Five were also very entertaining. This film should be shown mandatory with subtitles because between the Japs and that dude with the Texas accent it's bordering on impossible to understand the dialogue in the film. This film has no redeeming qualities at all other than the Japanese bimbos in short skirts.
2008-05-21	5.0	0	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie was great. I watch many time, then I began to try drifting on my own car. It didn't work out so well and now I'm in a major law suit with the director and producer of this film.
2013-05-29	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	After I watched Fast & Furious 6, I had to watch Tokyo Drift the same weekend. I'm glad amazon has its own app for the Playstation 3. Super easy to rent movies.
2006-06-27	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The movie is ok, it is definately fun to watch because I myself am a drifter and have been doing it for a few years in Jamaica, where JDM/RHD is the way. I live in the USA too and I miss my JDM vehicles being here in America. Most Americans have no clue and don't know that drifting, yes, like drag racing it is done on the same level, in fact, even higher. I laugh at the reviewer ' Reuben Roa' who said, and I quote, "People dont drift on the streets they do it professionally on real race tracks. LOL, the ignorance of some people, lol. I laugh at you. Drifitng was born on the hills of Japan, not on a track dear lad, LOL. We have been drifting on the streets where I am from as long as I can remember, especially touge; which is basically a sprint.Next issue. As for the Nissan SR20DET from the 'Great' Nissan Silvia S15 being put into a classic American Muscle Mustang; brought to attention by reviewer 'eggplant'. I agree with him/her that it is indeed a disgrace to do such a thing. LOL, American cars don't deserve the HONOR, LOL. But, all in all the movie is enjoyable, fun, which is what movies like that are supposed to be. I gave it 4 stars because it was not perfect, the acting was not amazing and the sound was ok, and it didn't really capture drifting fully. I loved the cameo though, great respects to the Drift King, Keiichi Tsuchiya; Mr. Initial D himself. Good movie.
2006-06-07	3.0	2	6	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Ok I have a question, why does this series keep straying farther away from what the underground scene is really about? People dont drift on the streets they do it professionally on real race tracks. Part 1 was horribly put together but it at least got the main point across. I of course will see this movie and probly enjoy it but I wish they would stick to drag racing since thats pretty much what people do in real life. Peace
2007-01-09	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Saw it in the theatres, was more fun at home in the privacy of my bedroom, wish it was in DTS like the original Fast and the Furious was :(
2013-02-07	5.0	3	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Fast and the Furious:  Tokyo drift is a great movie because it was in blu ray and everyone should watch and own it.
2013-07-07	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	We had seen this one before but it was nice to be able to watch it again.  We love this one,
2013-05-29	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	It is even better with the connections to Fast Five and 6. Worth a watch for fans of the series.
2013-08-10	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I had no clue such a sport existed; but drifting is very cool.  I am not a car person; but I enjoyed it and having been set in Tokyo was interesting to see the firm in a different culture.
2013-05-26	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I just love this film and the characters and the cars and races. Han is the best fast and furious character.
2006-10-05	5.0	2	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Are you tired of movie with great ideals but are boring?This movie is low on plot but high on VVRROOOMMM!!!!*DVD WARNING: The Bonus Features on my disk plays the same "Drifting School" feature overe and over.  Its a technical glitch that has to be addressed by the dvd pressers.Knock it all you want.  This movie has the most satisfying final scene of a movie that I've see in years.You watch movies to be entertained, right?  Sit back and ENJOY.
2011-11-02	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is my favorite of the franchise.  Many because of its exotic location compared to the others.  After seeing some of the others, I realize that the films aren't being filmed or released in chronological order.  It will be interesting if they bring Lucas Black's character back in a future installment of the series.This product was delivered in a timely manner - and in the condition described by the seller.  If the opportunity arises again, I would definitely buy from this seller again.
2013-08-09	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This was my least favorite of the series because it doesn't really seem like it has alot to do with the main chacters.
2014-04-28	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This is a sublime film that stands along side Seven Samurai and Citizen Kane as a triumph of modern film making. It is entirely without fault or flaw from beginning to end. The soundtrack is pulsating and the kind of thing you will listen to for years and years afterwards. The acting is pitch perfect. I wish they had split this epic film into three volumes like the Hobbit.
2007-01-04	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Car lovers, race lovers and drift lovers should enjoy this movie.  It makes no pretense about being "related" to the first two Fast and Furious shows, but does have a special surprise at the end.Tokyo is a tough city to film in, they did the race scenes in LA because Tokyo doesn't allow the streets to be closed for such things...However, I live/work in Tokyo, I visit some of the locations they used frequently, and I could not tell by watching that they were not in Shibuya, etc. key Tokyo locations...Great Job.Special Features are almost as valuable as the show, so it is like getting a 2 in 1 buy.Drifting is a serious, illegal and popular sport in Japan...  They did a great job introducing the world in general to it...  Though it has already be popularized among "race" crouds, now the general public will be able to enjoy it too...
2013-03-25	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	We enjoyed this movie. We are watching the whole series gearing up for the new one that is coming out
2012-12-09	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Fast Cars, Beautiful People... What's not to like??The story is a side story of the Fast and Furious series, but love it just the same.
2013-09-16	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Great car action with good lessons from Japanese culture.My favorite quote:&#34; I have money, it's trust and character I need around me. You know, who you choose to be around you lets you know who you are. One car in exchange for knowing what a man's made of? That's a price I can live with.&#34;
2014-02-19	3.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Fun movie to watch. Lots of action. No plot. Hacked dialog. Poor acting (they're acting?) but hey, if you've something to do, or a conversation to have, this is a great movie to run in the background.
2007-01-04	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie is action packed. I love how they captured the up and coming drifting scene. Some parts seemed too computerized but it was still great. I love this movie its way better than 2fast 2furious
2012-08-16	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	it just a movie I needed for the fast and furious collection. It was a good movie that goes more depth about the whole series.
2014-02-06	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie was an addition to the already Fast and Furious movies that I own.  I just want it to be in Blu-Ray form like the others that I had purchased.  Enjoyed this movie just as I did the others.
2014-05-11	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	but I still love it, mostly because when this movie came out I was still in my Anime/Japanese culture is awesome phase and no one could tell me this movie sucked because they were in Japan and I had the biggest crush on some of the Japanese guys on set.I wish it were Paul still, but I don't know, nor do I really care to know, why he isn't on board for this one. Either way, the racing sequences are just as great. Lacks a whole hell of a lot in action and there are too many stupid transitions showcasing the cute Asian club chicks bobbing around and what not. But as a fan of the series and as a fan of Japanese culture I am totally devoted to this film.
2013-03-28	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I was watching all the Fast and Furios movies getting ready for the new release. This was the missing puzzle piece.  It was fun to watch.
2013-07-16	1.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	this movie constitutes major distortion of real life, particularly in japanese/american values and behavior.  My opinion is, don't bother with it.
2006-07-19	1.0	3	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I tried to give this movie a chance seeing as how I love to speed, love cars, and love to see folks stunt in cars. (Don't believe the hype about only men loving their cars; I'm just about obsessed with my own.) I went to see this movie for the simple fact that I figured there was no way I could not like this movie. Bow Wow is a pretty charismatic dude and I was hoping he pulled this movie off like he did in "Roll Bounce." Fat chance. All of the actors in this one seemed to be out of place, and even the stunts didn't amuse me much. The plot was too shifty, and it moved too slowly for me to even want to pay attention. I couldn't get into this one, which was even more surprising because I liked the other two. But if there is a fourth one, I can guarantee you that I'll STILL be front and center.
2013-04-23	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This  rating is  because of their great service!  I love the movie.  I will be using them again!  I will recommend them to other friends.
2007-06-08	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Although the movie may be regarded as a mediocre movie by some, let's face the facts here: Tokyo Drift ain't no Schindler's List. It's an all round fun ride and the Drift sport was well translated into this movie. For sports car fanatics, this may well be in one of your collection as the cars are highlighted in a way that they have their own characters and could very well be the actors of this movie. Not to say that the actors are shabby, though. Although there are no Oscar nominated performances here, the cast have chemistry and are entertaining enough to keep you glued to the story, albeit predictable.As for the disc itself, Tokyo Drift on HD DVD paves the way for future titles to include the U-Control feature as one of a powerful, interactive tool to play with. Tokyo Drift has the Picture in Picture feature, where a 'behind the scenes' featurette plays throughout the movie; Set Pictures; Tech Specs where car characteristics or damage specs pop up during certain scenes; and Storyboards - all at your control. You can bring it up or switch it off whenever you want (only for the PiP. Other features have the option to pop up during certain scenes), without returning to the main menu. Besides the U-Control feature, you also have other staples such as deleted scenes, commentary, etc. There's even a garage mode where you customize (with a limited set of colors and designs) Han's car and actually see it in the "Doughnut" scene from the movie. Pretty useless, but cool nonetheless.Overall, Tokyo Drift is a fun, fast paced adventure with a predictable storyline (as well as a sweet cameo) and seeing it on HD DVD is a totally new experience. Have a new HD DVD Player and Plasma/LCD? This is what you should play to demo your rig!
2006-11-20	4.0	0	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	well, this movie was typical. over the passed few years the fast and the furious films have seemed to do a decent job giving an insider look to the current & up to date car enthusiast scene. however, sometimes it is very unrealistic. i'm assuming for the sake of action.  people seem to forget that it's just a movie. the action scenes are indeed far fetched, but they make the movie watchable. i don't know a TON about cars, so i can't really say if the movie was accuaretly displayed there or not. the plot was dry, like the other 2 of the series, but how exciting of a plot can you have with the amount of action and skilled driving packed into the movie.acting wise i was slightly over impressed. i could have done with another main character, though he did put me in the mind of a young paul walker. i could have done without zachary ty bryan in the beginning. maybe that's just because the only other place i've seen him is home improvement.besides it being unrealstic, yet action packed. i have came to the conclusion that if you are into cars, it's worth a watch. i wouldn't recommend BUYING it, but renting it would be worth it. 4 stars.
2014-01-03	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I purchased this to complete the series of fast and furious movies we already own.We have enjoyed this series from the beginning and can't wait for the next one to come out.We were so saddened to hear of Paul Walker's unexpected death and will miss him dearly in the movies.This will definitely be watched many times.
2013-01-09	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I got this movie to complete the seris i had the other 4. It was new and worked fine and it was a great price!
2013-12-20	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Its a great movie and the delivery was fast and easy. Everyone should watch this movie its action packed and good for the while family
2006-11-23	5.0	5	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	First I want to mention that I spent 13 years in Tokyo, Japan and I know every detail about this place. I cannot believe that the director Justin Lin has never been to Japan before (as he said in the interview) while was able to pull off such a accurate depiction of the distinctive characteristic of Tokyo. Of course there are exaggerations; no movie can be exciting without it. It is the direction of exaggeration that matters, which is suprisingly accurate in this movie. As opposed to what another review here argues, it is not unrealistic to live in "rabbit hutch" while work in a garage for fixing cars, I have seen similar garage in downtown Tokyo. I have also seen American kids wearing uniform and go to japanese high schools; there are many US military bases near Tokyo. The rivalry between right wing yakuza and Korean descendents (Han) is also a deeply rooted part of Japanese society. The use of famous Japanese TV personalities in this movie deserves an applause.However, it IS ridiculous to have capsule hotel in Han's garage and so on.Having moved to US after graduating from college in Japan, I enjoyed this movie because it gave me a fresh look back at where I spent my insecure adolescent years. It would be an exciting experience to explore Tokyo once having estabilished self confidence as Sean did (provided you have a source of income, of course)
2006-06-30	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift gives the film watcher beautiful scenes of Tokyo, Japan.  Sean Boswell goes to live with his father to escape a jail sentence.  The viewer sees the interior of a typical small Japanese apartment.  There are scenes of all of the cramp rooms including the bath.  We with Sean attend a Toyko high school where the students' street shoes are placed in a cubicle located outside the classroom door.  Special slippers are worn in the classroom.  Sean encounters Japanese cafetria food.  He is put off by look of the food, but he tastes it and likes it.  There are shots a Japanese bath, parking garage, capsule sleeping quarters, Pachinko parlors, street vending machines and much more.  The film is great for those interested in life in modern Tokyo, Japan.  Also, The Fast and the Furious gives the viewer insight into the world of underground street drift racing.  The racing scenes on the mountain and street are awesome.
2008-03-23	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I bought this video for my teenage son. It was an okay film for teens, but not for adults. The first two Fast and Furious films were better than Tokyo Drift, and had much more action, and stunt driving.The theme in The Fast And The Furious Toykyo Drift was about an American teen who had problems and was sent to live with his father in Tokyo, Japan. He didn't fit in well and found himself in trouble almost from the start of the film.I watched the movie with my son, and the only part I found interesting was the "drifting" part of the movie. The rest was as usual in teen movies...
2014-02-21	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Thank it came fast and safe and clear as a picture thank you for the service you provide and to keep the price down
2006-07-22	4.0	2	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	After I have seen and heard awful reviews, this movie was quite a surprised to me.  Sure it does not feature Paul Walker or Vin Disel!?  Lucas Black did a good job filled in to the main role.  As we all know, Street racing and customized street car with unique painting originated in Japan, and I thought it was brilliant idea that this movie took a place in Japan.  Sure it has a quite a few flows as American kid never ended up going to Japanese traditional public school.  And Lucas Black's military dad never had to live in that pig stay.  They do have a nice western houses for them to live either on base or near base, but never lived downtown area where 30 miles off from base...The drive sequels are great as first two movies in different way.  It was such a treat to see them on street of Tokyo.  And Those unknown Asian actors contributed quite a depth of characters to make this eyecady/popcorn movie more realistic.  It still amazes me that The Fast and Furious movies always have been meant to guilty pleasure/pop corn movies, but it always has great and strong character developments and cultural portraits.
2013-11-08	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Best fast and furious movie ever would recommend to anyone who enjoys great movies. 5 stars all the way thanks for your time
2012-04-08	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	A lot of people are hating on this movie. But I thought it wasn't bad. A lot of people have told me they don't consider Fast and Furious Tokyo Drift one of Fast and Furious movie. I don't see why not. It still has car's. LOL what a girl thing to say. I enjoyed it.
2006-07-02	4.0	6	7	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift isn't a deep, thought provoking movie, but it doesn't purport to be either.  It's just what it was marketed in trailers to be: an action packed fun bit of mind candy filled with fast cars, dozens upon dozens of hot Japanese girls, thumping music, and body flinching car crashes.  The basic plot is that a high school driving nut gets in trouble (yet again) after racing with a rich boy.  To keep him out of jail, he is sent to his estranged father in Japan.  Alas, there he discovers the world of drifting, an even more dangerous style of racing.  Unfortunately, he also soon finds himself in trouble with the relative of a high ranking Yakuza.For me, the only really noticeable mistake in this movie is that way too many people walked away with only a few scratches from what should have been fatal crashes.  For example, there is one crash where a car rams into a concrete tube while going at least 80 mph.  Yet the two occupants didn't even require a hospital bed!  A more minor mistake might have been putting in a little too much plot, especially when some things weren't followed up as well as they could have.  In the end, though, the plot is mostly there to serve as some spacer between all the hot cars and awesome races.  I should mention one other minor mistake.  Vin Diesel's cameo was so completely pointless.  The movie already had a good ending, it was just kinda senseless.The cars in this movie are the real stars.  So many hot little numbers, including American muscle cars, hot foreign vehicles, and one pimped out van that you just have to see to believe.  The acting is good, for what it is, though Luca Black's twang-filled voice might annoy some folks.  Twinkie, another army brat played by Bow Wow, is such a hoot!  I know I said the plot was mostly spacer, but I did find the interaction between Sean, Han, and Twinkie to be awesome.So I suggest you don't think about the logistics of things.  Just sit back and enjoy the cars, the some times over-the-top characters, and, for the men (or lesbians) the multitude of Japanese girls who barely wear any clothes. All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed seeing this movie.  I was pleasantly surprised that they attempted to include at least some true elements of Japanese culture, such as the changing shoes thing in schools.I do recommend this one been seen in the theater.  The music and pulse of the movie are made for big screen, surround sound viewing!  I might get this one DVD just to have something fun and rocking to watch when I want some mindless action.
2013-11-21	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The main character was terrible... but the car action was interesting just not as great as its predecessor.  I think the only interesting character was the Japanese guy who loaned the car.
2014-03-07	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I've always loved this franchise, yet after the sudden, unexpected death of Walker, I just wanted to pay some type of small tribute to him and the cast for their work.
2013-12-20	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I was not as receptive to this one  as I was to the other Fast & Furious films. It just felt kind of out of place to me. I still like it though because I was able to learn about some of the Japanese culture, and there was a new kind of racing called drifting which was really interesting.
2013-03-21	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	it is great to watch all of these cars and people getting to ride and get to live the life on the edge
2013-06-27	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The movie was decent but I have to wait until F & F 7 because articles are saying that all the other movies tie into this one and Tokyo Drift might actually be the end of the series?  Weird.  I like Han in all the movies so in the end it was ok.  I could possibly change my rating after the F & F 7 but we'll see.
2013-04-01	4.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	this is the three moive in the ser. i love the movie but the ending sad and does make sence because the guy who died  shows up the fith movie. u should watch it.
2007-05-06	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Excellent HD-DVD title. Superior sound and picture quality. Nice interactivity gags. Highly recommended!
2012-12-19	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I love the whole series of Fast and Furious movies--shortage of Vin in here but still good racing scenes and story line
2006-12-21	3.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Fast and Furious Tokyo Drift was created because...................This movie must beer for car lovers. I think I purchased this because my daughter wanted to see Bow Wow.
2013-09-14	1.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Seriously what was the point of this movie???  The rest of the series ( and I saw all 6 movies as of 2013- should get mother of year award for that alone) was ok if you like that sort of thing or you are a 14 year old boy.  But this installment was lame!  Couldn't the producers not cough up enough for any of the main characters??  Oh well, watch this movie is your are 14 year old boy or trying to win a parenting award.
2007-01-17	3.0	1	10	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Hi!This is a fun movie, especially if you hate rich people.  All the rich people in this movie get what they deserve.  Because they're rich.  Did I mention how much I hate rich people?  If you hate rich people, watch this movie.  Did I mention it was made by rich people? I hate them, too.  Except that guy who hates rich people in the movie previews like me who tells me not to copy movies because it keeps him from being rich.  This movie has lots of fast cars, and rich people getting what's coming to them, isn't that right, Spank?
2007-07-16	1.0	16	23	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	What can I say?  The original "Fast and the Furious" was sort of ridiculous, but did make a mark in the modern genre of action movies that involve decked/tricked out cars. "2 Fast, 2 Furious" was a lackluster sequel, but at least there was a conduit from the first movie with Paul Walker starring in it.  But this movie, "Tokyo Drift" was the most holistic form of cinematic crap I have seen in a long, long time.The plot is that an American teenager Sean, played by Lucas Black (who has a southern accent that sounds so fake, yet in reality it isn't) is sent to live with his father in Tokyo.  This happens after he again breaks the law for racing and wrecking cars after a languid day of high school.  So he moves to Tokyo so he can be reformed, have a better attitude, bring his grades up and stay away from fast cars.  Nevertheless, this instigator of plot never really seems to be addressed or resolved.  The fact that Sean had no friends or family anywhere else closer than Tokyo still seems dubious.  Any who, Sean is up to his old tricks again with cars faster than you can say "Goodyear" once he moves in with daddy.As for this 105 minute (which felt much longer) bowel movement in still life had many interesting elements.  For instance, I found it so interesting that all the Japanese students pretty much treat their native tongue like a second language and English as a first.  Also every Japanese teenage girl that has an interest in cars is unbelievably sexy and hot.  The only fashion and music in Tokyo is hip hop.  It appears that none of these Japanese teenagers work, but their cars cost more that some of the projects NASA funds.  Japanese mob members seem to have too much interest in teenage activities.  Also the technique of "drifting" displayed in this movie is physically impossible to perform with a car, unless your car is created by Q (from the James Bond films).  It is also pretty safe to say there is more computer graphics in this movie than a Pixar/Disney film.Bow Wow?  Bow Wow?  Bow Wow?  Bow Wow? Bow Why? What in the world was the point of him in this movie?  All he did was produce comic relief, that wasn't funny at all and sell knockoff/bootleg sneakers and iPods.  His presence could have been removed and it wouldn't have influenced the frail plot that was sadly placed.  Also why did Vin Diesel agree to be in this movie, but refused to be in "2 Fast 2 Furious"?  Not that "2 Fast 2 Furious" was great, but it was an Oscar winner compared to "Tokyo Drift".  It isn't like Vin Diesel is some true thespian actor, just watch XXX, so why didn't he include himself in these movies some more.  After all didn't the "Fast and the Furious" really introduce Vin to mainstream American audiences?  I guess being in a sequel is beneath Vin.  As for Vin Diesel's cameo, he looked like the make-up crew got a little jiggy with the Max Factor or something, because Vin looked like a woman.In conclusion, if you want to laugh at a poor attempt to cash in to this franchise, watch "Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift".  It really is entertaining, but not a good movie by any stretch of the imagination.  In contrast, there is one of the most creative but ridiculous plug ins/product placements I have ever seen in a movie.  The item is Tabasco sauce and it is thrown in the most outrageous, idiotic, and lame and "you have got to be kidding me" situations I have ever seen in a movie.  You have been warned.
2013-06-05	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I consider this as more of a spinoff instead of part of the story. The race at the beginning was one of the best one I've ever seen in any FF movie.  Cast is solid, considering all of the unknowns in this movie at the time.Curious if they will attempt to tie this film in with FF7 or leave it to stand on its own. If they don't, at least give it its own sequel.
2009-12-29	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This movie delivers all the races and crashes you could possibly desire, and a little more. The Drifting was really impressive. I recommend this movie to anyone who like auto racing.
2007-01-04	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Movie arrived in a very timey manner. My son loves it and has watched it over and over again! This is the best way that I have found to purchase movies.
2006-09-19	3.0	3	5	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The real surprise of the third `The Fast and the Furious' film is its cameo appearance. I know I should not write who appears. Just wait for the ending.Until then, you have to foloow the film's silliest story patiently. In order to avoid a jail sentence, a disgraced son Sean (Lukas Black) is sent to Tokyo where his father lives. In spite of his strict father's advice, Sean gets hooked up with the yakuza (Japanese mafia) there after a car race. Now every Japanese viewer would find the story not only incredible but laughable, for no yakuza, which is tightly organized group, would ever hire an American high school kid as debt collector (it is illegal and too conspicuous)But that is not the point, I know, and this film is not made as documentary film. The real selling points of `The Fast and the Furious; Tokyo Drift' is the glittering vista of neon-lit city of Tokyo, and `drifting' or unique style of driving, deliberately skidding your car when turning around a corner. The car stunts are mostly thrilling (mostly meaning when not using special effects), showing the great skills of the stunt drivers.My three stars all go to these professionals, not the actors. The film doesn't need to be a Shakespeare, but still some of the players here show atrocious acting that is simply unacceptable. The boys are handsome but cannot move a single muscle of their face, and the ladies are beautiful but they all look so wooden.(By the way, some Japanese audiences hated the film because of its casting. Except for Sonny JJ Chiba, most of the main `Japanese' characters are played by Asian-American actors, not Japanese actors. Probably Non-Japanese viewers would not mind it, but Taiwanese-born director Justine Lin should have known that we (I mean, Asians) are sometimes very sensitive to the issue.)All in all, it is a mindless OK film just like two other `Fast and the Furious' films.If you like this film and drift racing, try `Initial D.'
2006-10-09	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Ok theres enough reviews on the movie's story line and comments about the cars that I wont bring that up here. Whether you like the movie or not is up to you I only want to comment on its quality as far as watching it on HD DVD.This is one of the best looking films I have seen put out on HD DVD yet. The quality of the video is eye popping and definely a reference disk I will use when showing off my home theater to guests. The sound track sounded great with DD+ but could have been better with TrueHD.The extras were awesome and have outdone anything any other HD movie has done yet. If you own an HD DVD player this movie is one you want to keep in your collection.
2013-02-04	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	ok so i have every one of the fast and furious movies n i really lobe this one bc it doesnt follow the others
2012-01-22	5.0	1	2	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	everything about this movie blows me away. I love how they focused on the Japanese Import Tuning aspect of racing, especially Drifting. It may not appeal to a diverse audience especially those who are racist towards Asians and hate Japanese Cars... One flaw of the Original Fast and Furious was that the Asians were portrayed as the bad Characters.  While we still have the typical Asian Gangster/racer guys at least they have more honorable traits. I just wish the movie had Topless Japanese Girls or better yet topless Filipina Girls.
2013-03-07	5.0	1	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	confusing, but nice twist.  Definitely a must see.I hope they tie this one in somewhere else along the line but it could be a cool spin off
2011-01-17	5.0	2	3	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Excellent movie, great cast. Keeps you on the edge of your seat, up beat kind of movie. Makes you wish you were behind the wheel, keeps the blood pumping.
2006-06-21	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	This 3rd installment of the fast and furious was cool it was better than I thought but it just wasn't enough racing in this one there was a lot of action I like this one you just got to accept the fact that the stars from the 1st 2 are not in this one but its good you should go see this.
2014-01-04	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Excellent lights and power. The turbines were whistling in this one. Vin Diesel in Tokyo makes this movie all air.
2014-02-19	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	The fast and furious at its finest, plenty of drift racing action, with a little romance and drama. 10 out of 10
2013-12-01	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	An entire new way to look at the Japanese culture and the sport of drifting. Film took a little bit before it got going.
2009-10-13	5.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	this movie isn't as good as 2F2F, or the first FF, or even close to part 4 in the series of FF movies,but it is still a must have!
2008-06-09	1.0	0	4	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	I watched this DVD just because I have watched Initial D (the same car racing / drifting gerne) animation.  I watched it just because I wanted to know how it could be shot with real people.  To my disappointment, I found it was a very useless theme.  There is no actual reason for this drifting/racing.  I guess that is a teenage thing -- anger.  I believe a lot of 1-star had been giving to this film and I am not going to eleborate any more.I found it has a real bad influence to anyone who loves cars and those who always wanted to race.  Even though the main character, Sean, never really injured in the movie, all his opponents died!  Right, they all died.  If anyone has a clear mind, Sean is just on the border and he could be the next one in line.Last 2 words -- Drive Safely.
2006-06-16	2.0	7	14	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	There isn't much to the plot: racing, women, mafia, cars, faster cars, women...and racing and mafia. If these are your thing, and you want some mindless action and entertainment, you might like this movie. I imagine The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift, might be best enjoyed after drinking a 6 pack of Mountain Dew.In this Story, Sean Boswell goes to Tokyo to live with his military uncle. He soon becomes involved with drift racing. Sean loses a race to someone tied with the Japan style mafia, the Yakuza. It is here that the meat of the story really begins.With so many good popcorn movies out at this time, I don't see this movie picking up much steam. Everything about it is average and forgettable. I would wait until it comes out on DVD, unless you are a hardcore racing fan, or in need of mindless entertainment (I mean that in a good way).Total Score (out of 100) = 3321 (out of 50). Enjoyment. A rating based on my overall enjoyment of the film.4 (out of 10). Acting. How good was the acting?4 (out of 10). Immersion. Did the movie suck me into the story?3 (out of 10). Intangibles. Special effects. Movie pace. Is the movie forgettable, or something you will talk about and remember for weeks? Years?1 (out of 10). Must see. Is this movie worth seeing/renting?0 (out of 10). Must buy. Is this movie a must buy/purchase?
2009-10-10	5.0	0	1	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	if you have all four you will agree this should have been the last one made
2014-01-20	4.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	It was a pretty good movie. Good acting,a few dry moments but all in all it was good,worth seeing.watch it.
2013-06-05	3.0	0	0	The-Fast-and-the-Furious:-Tokyo-Drift	Ok not as good as the others.  Would hsvr expected to see more of the team.  It did tie in some questions i had.
