>> Project MovieRatings <<
Florian Blom, Maarten van Esse, Fenna Levenbach, Martijn Muller

> Introduction
We came to form this group because of shared interest in Hollywood productions.
We had four completely different research questions in mind, but after careful consideration we decided this should not be a hindrance.
Hence, our research consists of three different inquiries, encapsulated in the research question:

What external factors influence movie appreciation?

Within our project, we look at three possible factors:
1. the movie's duration
2. the movie's genre
3. the death of an actor starring in the movie

> Method
The 1st thing we needed, was an appropriate dataset.
We immediately thought of the Internet Movie Database (IMDB).
IMDB is probably the largest and most popular database for movie data.
Unfortunately, we discovered, there are only third-party APIs allowing access to IMDB's data.
So we settled for OMDBapi, which was the most accessible.
Additionally, we can use the Rotten Tomatoes API for data unavailable through OMDBapi.
To gather reviews of movies, we use the Amazon API, since they have a vast collection of movies and their reviews.

The 2nd thing to do, was to filter the gathered data.
From a German site containing actual IMDB files, we retrieved the complete list of all movies, series, documentaries, etc. that are on IMDB.
This list is over 45MB in size; way too extensive.
And this is where we stranded.
We do not yet have a list containing all movies on IMDB and nothing else.
The work on the filtering-script is still ongoing.

The 3rd step in the process is to use the filtered dataset to obtain the desired results.
As soon as our movielist is finished, we will use URL requests to gather data about:
- movie duration (OMDBapi)
- movie genre (OMDBapi)
- movie rating (OMDBapi)
- deceased actors (OMDBapi)
- reviews (Amazon)
We will most likely ask OMDBapi to only sent back data about movies, in order to be sure that no non-movie data affects the results.
Therefore we would have to add the condition of something like 'only if kind="film"' to the requesting-script.

The 4th and final step is to interpret the results and visualize them appropriately.
We have not yet given this step any though yet, as it's yet so far away.

> Discussion
This discussion is not about the results, as we do not have any yet.
The problems we encountered are mainly in the data-filtering part.
We would really like to have a movielist as complete as possible, but at the same time as clean as possible.
Filtering out everything that is not a movie turns out to be a hard task.
Eventually we will get there though, preferably before wednesday October 7th.

We have already learned that choosing the right dataset is half the work.
Maybe we will have to reduce our research to just one of the sub-questions if there is too little time left.

> Comments
In the GroupMembers folder you can find the individual status-updates of the group members.
They contain used commands and codes, which will later be merged into scripts.

In the Files folder you can find datafiles we are using for our research.
